# Context Repositories: Git-backed Memory for Coding Agents (Deep Dive)

**Video ID:** R_4r_NNjg1M
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R_4r_NNjg1M

---

## Transcript

Hey everyone, Charles from Letto here. So today I'm going to be going over context repositories. It's a brand new feature we just shipped in Leticode a few days ago and yeah, it's a pretty big feature. It's a very kind of fundamental overhaul to the way memory works inside of Leticode. Uh and we're super excited about it. I think it basically makes your agents much more capable at maintaining a very large memory system and then also making very big significant changes to the memory. So what we've noticed is for agents that have context repositories enabled basically they're able to much more easily like reorganize their memory um in very significant ways and then they generally seem to be much better at also making good memories. So in this video I'm going to go over the blog post that we released and this is more of just explaining like what context repositories are, how they work, why it's different from the previous system um called memory blocks and I'm also going to go over a demo. So, if you're interested in just the demo part, um check the time stamps in the description and you can just jump ahead to that. But I'm going to start with the blog first since uh context repositories are very different from memory blocks. Um they connect so they they are related to each other, but it's a significant enough change that I think it it's for those that are interested, it's um worth diving into the details of how it works and what makes it so much better. A truss from the future teleporting back into the beginning of the video. Uh, and I kind of just wanted to quickly showcase like what context repositories actually looks like. Um, so if you're interested in just jumping to the actual like implementation details, um, you know, what does it look like to see kind of like the layout of your context and then also I think more importantly kind of see these edits that are happening that are like kind of these getbacked edits. So yeah, all the memory edits are now tracked and you can kind of see all the all the changes your memory agents are making um to the memory in a very clean way. So yeah, if you kind of want to just see what this looks like in practice, u jump ahead. I'll leave timestamps in the description and what I'm going to do immediately next is go over the blog post. Um but yeah, again, if you're interested just in the implementation, just in how it works, um go ahead and like jump ahead till later in the video. Okay, so firstly, what even is a context repository? Uh basically it's git based memory. So it's memory that is tracked through git and it is edited through more natural like bash and file editing tools as opposed to specific memory tools which is the way that memory blocks works. Okay. Okay, so a very important thing to call out here is that context repositories it exposes the memory as files to the agent but it's not like the memory is just files in let code context repositories it is taking all the memories of the agent that actually are stored in memory blocks and it's kind of transplanting it onto the machine that you're on so that the agent can manipulate the memory much more easily. Uh so this is really all about putting memory that lives with the agent. It's kind of like the server side state. So it is very it's like not if your computer caches on fire and you know your context repository kind of vanishes because your hard drive is destroyed. It's not like you lost your agent. The agent is kind of still living in the API server and has all its memories. It's more that the the memories have all kind of been synchronized into the local file system. And through being synchronized to the local file system, uh you get a lot of nice properties. Uh so yeah that's basically what the blog post is about. Okay so to kind of illustrate the concrete difference between like the expressiveness of memory tools and more general computer use tools like bash. Uh let's justam imagine this example of you know an agent that maybe has been chatting like my personal agent. So it maybe has a ton of memories about me and in all of those memories my name is Charles. So there's all these instances of you know Charles did this, Charles did that, Charles likes this, Charles doesn't like this. Now let's say one day I tell my agent actually um I don't want to be called Charles, I want to be called Optimus Prime. Okay, so in the more traditional framework um this sort of operation is going to be done through a string replace tool. So the agent is going to call a tool like string replace um or sorry memory replace and it's going to take an old string and a new string and then generally this will also in like let us system it takes some sort of path um either like a path or a label. Okay, so imagine we have this memory block or this memory fragment or memory file or whatever you want to call it, but there's some sort of like piece of memory and it's in token space and it says Charles really likes Cyberpunk Edge Runners. And the agent now is going to call memory replace on this block um the block ID, you know, it could be an ID, it could be a a path, you know, whatever it is, it's going to call replace Charles with Optimus Prime. And this will execute on the server or wherever, you know, these memories are stored. And the output of this is going to be now the new memory is Optimus Prime really likes cyberpunk catch runners. And sure this is okay. I mean this is like basically the way that uh megpt works. You know this the original research paper we wrote a while ago. Um this is kind of the way that like memory works in basically all the modern chatbot systems. It's all like the mem GPT style memory where there's some sort of like memory bank. Um, and you can think of those as memory blocks in Leta. And the agent, it kind of has control of those memory blocks. Um, it can either append, replace, uh, delete. In this case, it's going to do a memory replace to replace Charles with Optimus Prime. Okay. So, where does this break down? Well, you know, this kind of works if or it's like very easy to conceptualize if there is only like one memory. Um, but you can imagine like, you know, if an agent is maintaining a very good memory system and it's learning a lot about me. If we've been chatting for a very long time, you know, it's not just going to have one file or one like memory block about preferences. It's also going to know a lot about like maybe my style, my location that I generally am in, my appearance, my hobbies, my friends. You know, this can kind of go on forever. Um, and you can have, let's say you have like n total different files or different memory blocks. And these are all just for me, right? There's like there going to be a ton of stuff from the agent itself, um, for like other things like organizations, work, you know, whatever. So now what's going to happen here is the agent is actually going to have to like call this tool memory replace a bunch of times. It's going to have to call it end times. Um, so instead of just calling it once, the agent's going to have to call it end times. And like agents, you know, these days they have the ability to do parallel tool calling. So sure, you know, the agent can kind of call a bunch of tools in parallel, you know, it can call them on different files. U, but at the same time, this is like limited. It's not like an agent that's going to dump 100 parallel tool calls uh at once. And then it's also just like kind of redundant, right? I think you know realistically what you'd want to do is you'd want to like support maybe the memory replace function it this memory tool it has like a wildcard operator and then the wild card operator allows you to like match into like everything inside of humans. Um so you know you you can potentially make like the memory tools much more complex to make it a lot easier to do like these batch operations. Okay, so maybe you're thinking, you know, that doesn't sound that bad. Like, was this really going to ever happen? Um, I'm not convinced that this is, you know, what you're about to show me with like bash is going to be better than like this memory place tool. Uh, I think another example I can give you is let's imagine, you know, this friends folder. Yeah, let's imagine this friends folder has, you know, Bob, Alice, and like a p total friends. And let's say I'm super popular and I have like 1,000 friends. Um well, you know what happens if the agent decides one day, you know, I actually think that each of these friends, you know, they're starting to maybe they're directly interacting with me and now I don't want it to be like human and then friends as this like nest organization. Instead, actually, I want to give every single person in friends their own human like directory, right? Okay. So to be concrete, basically we're trying to like unpack friends and pull it out. And we want to basically say that like now there Oh, and actually let's change this. Oops. So now it's not human, it's humans. And then I also want to say that like Alice and Bob, they they're not just like friends of Charles, they got their own dedicated top level memory organization. Um, so it's going to be Alice, Bob, Charles, and then maybe like a bunch of other friends. Okay, maybe let's say there's a thousand of them. They're all going to get unpacked into the humans directory. Okay, so maybe now you're starting to see like the potential problem here. Like what is going to be involved in this case if we only have a tool called memory replace? Okay, well now you know the agent is going to have to do like a bunch of label edits. So let's say this memory block you know human/prefs this is actually represented as you know a label in the database as human for/pres and let's say that you can actually replace labels and in in um and in leta when you use memory blocks uh there's actually a memory tool and the memory tool I think just look like this it's kind of the memory omni tool and you have the ability to change the label so you have the ability to kind of like say okay I'm going to make the old label this and then And the new label is this. But notice immediately there's kind of this like very disturbing thing that happened which is that you know all I did was at a high level concept level I decided you know we don't it's no longer just human it's humans. We have many different humans. Um but the organization here like how many like kind of atomic operations happened? Well we did an unpacking of the P friends you know to the top and then we also renamed this human to humans. So that's like P operations to unpack and then it is one operation to go from human to humans. So it's kind of like P plus one. But if the way that we can kind of like change the directory structure or like the organizational structure is actually through modifying the labels with this memory tool, you're actually going to have to do many more than just like P plus one operations because you're going to have to touch every single memory that's inside of human. Like just because we modified the directory or it's not really like a real directory, it's more like a concept directory. Just because we modified that one directory, we are having to touch every single memory, right? Okay. So that actually like seems pretty problematic. Um and I I would actually kind of agree that like you know it is a problem if an agent can't do this efficiently. And I think what ends up happening when agents can't really do this efficiently is the agent kind of like is aware of its kind of limitations in some way. What seems like it should be a simple renaming ends up becoming like way too complex. Uh I think with with memory blocks what you see is that the agents just never do this like the agents never do this like really big um reorganization you know really big but just changing like a label here and there um because because it's actually just like very expensive to do something that should be pretty simple and when I say it should be pretty simple you know what do I mean well if you're familiar with Unix um or kind of like the terminal tools you know that you can do these things you can do the command called MB to kind of like rename a directory. So if we were able to express memory mutation operations with bash, then we could do things like this. So yeah, we could basically just do a single command um to change the directory name or you know, again, it's not like necessarily real directory. It's kind of a virtual concept directory, but we can change it from human to humans with a single bash command. with the old system of memory blocks. Uh this actually ends up being like a very complex amount of like memory operations with the memory tool. But if you can modify your memories through bash, it allows you to do things like you know the unpacking. The unpacking also would be a very simple bash command. You can do unpacking, you can do reorganization. Uh all these things are like really really simple. Um they're kind of like as simple as they could potentially be. You can kind of express everything through code. Um, so all of your memory operations can just be expressed much more cleanly through through code. So yeah, that's kind of what we're saying this part of the blog post. Basically, what context repositories allows you to do is kind of like unfold the virtual memory or kind of like the remote memory state, put it into a local file system purely so that the agent can like manipulate it very easily. And yeah, again back to the analogy of kind of a human, you know, like myself as a human, I generally work on um this computer, this MacBook I'm recording from, but I also use like a lot of different computers. I use like remote computers, you know, my phone is a computer, but it's not like, you know, my memories or myself are living on those computers or those devices. It's not like if I lose my phone, I kind of like lose a fragment of my identity or like my memories. Instead, like I have my memories stored inside my brain and then I use all these devices. And I think you want to think about agents, especially stateful agents that uh you think about more like humans. Uh you want to think about it in a similar way with some of these other coding tools or coding agents. They treat memory like literally just as local files. And I think that's kind of like the wrong way to think about it. It's more that you do want the memory to become synchronized with local files so that you can edit it very easily and do like very very powerful operations on it. Um but the memory is still kind of like remote. Okay. Okay. And then the other very important part of context repositories is that they are gitbacked. And this is the way that we do the synchronization between the server and uh the local file system where kind of the memory gets like transplanted onto um it's all done via git. So like when you are kind of pulling down the memory so the agent can edit it um that's basically just a git pull. That's all managed by the let code harness but under the hood it's all using git. And this has a lot of nice properties. I think the most relevant property if you're using Leta code as a ver as a um personal agent is that all the memory changes, they're all now going to be tracked. So let's say you're using Leta Code and you have a sleep time um or like reflection agent enabled, you're actually going to be able to see all the changes to your memory that happened when you like basically weren't looking. So you can see like what your agent did to your memory or what sorry I guess what the agent did to its own memory. And because it's Git, you can also like roll it back. You can also have like many parallel agents all working on the memory together. And the way that would work was through git work trees. So basically by tracking the memory that is uh that is virtual but sync local it basically allows you to do a lot of really really cool things with these background or sleep time agents. Okay. So the other important thing to take away in the blog post is that not all memories are treated equally. We kind of had this concept with memory blocks in that like an agent could create memory blocks and then it could detach the memory blocks and then basically like every memory block um that is attached is going to be in context. So things like you know the personality of your agent you'd always want that to be attached because you know if the personality of your agent gets detached it's not going to be in context. So the agent like won't act the way you expect, right? It's not the personality won't like influence the behavior if it's just, you know, remote somewhere where the agent can see it if it like looks it up. So we have the exact same concept in context repositories. And the way it works is that in this virtualized file system that gets synced down through git onto the local machine for the agent to edit, everything that is inside kind of the system folder, these are all things that are going to be injected into the system prompt. So this is the equivalent of core memory. This is the equivalent of attached memory blocks, right? So everything in here, this is always going to be visible to the agent. It also means that this is actually all going to be finite context. You cannot just have an infinite infinite amount of things mounted inside of system. But then the kind of the benefit of this way of doing progressive disclosure versus the memory block system is that it allows you to organize everything that's not inside of the context window very cleanly. So the agent will be still be able to see like all of these memories that are outside of its context window but everything that's outside of system these are not actually going to be injected into the system prompt only the kind of like highle tree outline will be. So the agent if it had this exact you know context repository memory structure it would know everything inside of coding style it's going to see all the time. So this is always visible but this project timeline that's inside of history it's not going to immediately see what's in here. it would have to like go fetch it or go read it. And this pairs very very nicely with the whole mutating memory with bash because you could imagine like an agent can basically decide maybe there's many different humans. Um it can it can decide like hey I'm no longer working with this person or maybe this person I haven't chatted with in a very long time and I it it used to be very important for me to like see all this stuff about them but now I like don't need to see it. I can kind of like remove this. I'm not going to delete it. I'm not gonna like lose it forever, but I'm just gonna like move this folder from here to here. And if we do that, then it no longer is like polluting the context window. Um, but the agent's like still very aware of it. Okay, so the other parts of this blog I'm go over quickly because I'm actually going to like showcase it in a demo. But yeah, basically as I was saying earlier, one really cool thing about context repositories is that they allow you to have these like multi- aent memory swarms where you can basically have like many different parallel sub aents in let code that are all doing edits to memory. And we actually have an example inside of the init tool. So if you run init inside of let code and that's kind of like it's a it's a pre-built command that will kind of bootstrap your memory system. So I I'll show that to you guys. Um, but if you run that, there's actually a new thing inside of let code where Leta Code will see if you've used cloud code before. It'll see if you've used codecs before and it'll ask you, hey, do you want me to like go process your old codecs or like cloud code history and try to like learn something about you? And the way that will work is it actually will spawn like concurrent memory sub agents. Each of these memory sub agents is going to be modifying its own work tree of memory. it will kind of check out a work tree um off of like the main memory and it will work on these work trees and then those work trees will kind of get merged as a natural way to kind of take all the changes that the different memory agents have made combine them all and then push it back to the server to kind of synchronize the memory back into the agent's brain and yeah basically there's a lot of built-in skills inside of let code for doing sort of memory management so the memory initialization memory reflection um so this is the one I'll show you guys today this whole background ground codeex cloud code injection thing I think kind of deserves its own video because firstly it takes a long time. Um the memories are really rich. So I think this kind of this I'll say this for a different video but the reflection one I'll I'll show you guys today. And then there's also a def fragmentation skill which is the idea that maybe your memory like ends up getting kind of messy. You want to occasionally like clean up the memory, like maybe there's some duplication here and there that wasn't caught in real time, but you want to say like, hey, let's like let's take some dedicated time to actually clean up this memory, make it very like concise, and then maybe also like reevaluate what's inside of system and what's not inside of system and kind of move things around. Okay, so to briefly show you guys what kind of memory system looks like, I'm actually going to load up an old agent. So this is kind of my daily driver. So yeah, this agent is Big Chungus the second. This is kind of uh my main personal agent that I do a lot of like dev work with and yeah the the way to check if context repositories is enabled is you do for slashmemory um you hit enter and if context repositories is enabled what you'll see is this like file tree uh view of memory as opposed to if it's not enabled you're going to see like a block view of memory. So the way to basically check do I have um context repositories turned on is you just do for/memory and then look for this file system view. You you'll be able to tell if it's this view or the other view. Okay. So the other thing you'll be able to do if you have context repositories enabled is you should be able to tap O or like the press O on your keyboard. Um O for open when you're on the memory view page. So yeah, basically when you're on this page, you know, hit O um for open in browser and then a browser window should open, you'll get this local static file rendering of the memory. So you'll be able to see kind of like what's in system, what's in core, the tools, and then you'll also be able to see uh what I'll get into later kind of like this full git history because again context repositories another really big advantage over memory blocks is that they are git tracked. So you can see like every single change that happened versus memory blocks weren't natively like tracked. So you'd have to actually like implement your own system without memory blocks to see uh kind of a change log of like which agent edited which memory, what did they change versus with context repositories, it comes like baked in because it's all git. Okay. So the way I'm actually demo this is I'm going to start from scratch. I'm going to create a brand new agent. If you want to follow along, uh the way you would do that is make sure you install leta code then you run you you can run leta to follow along with me. Uh basically the first time you run leta you're going to be prompted to log in and ooth and once you do that there are some like free models you can use uh you can also connect your own API keys um to use your own like codeex account or use you know anthropic API keys things like that. Okay, so I created a brand new agent. I actually um renamed this agent to context repost example just so it's a little bit more clear what we're doing. And yeah, if you want to change the model, um I'm actually going to change the model here to change the reasoning setting to be high for/model 46. I'm going to set it to high. Okay, so this is a completely uh brand new agent. If you look at the memory system with for/memory, it's super bare bones. Uh, it's basically one memory about myself, the human, one memory about itself. So, not much here at all. Um, kind of bare bones, which is good because we're going to run the init command to get started. Okay, so you can tell like I ran the init command. Uh, the way this actually works is the agent has a built-in initializing memory skill. It loads that skill and yeah, the agent actually is looking for um historical session data from cloud and codeex. I'm going to let all that run. Okay. Okay. And the agent actually also asked like, you know, how long do you want me to go for? Um, do you want me to do like a very extensive memory initialization? Uh, or do you want me to do something kind of quick? Um, I'm actually just going to do something quick for the sake of this video. Then it's also asking like, am I Charles Packer? That is me. And then it's it's also asking me, you know, I found the cloud code and the codeex history. Um, do you want me to analyze it so I can learn from your preferences? This actually takes a while. Uh, so I'm going to again, for the sake of this video, I'm going to skip it. But this is like super cool. Um, I think, you know, if you're running this yourself and you have that session data, I would definitely recommend hitting yes, um, the results are like really, really cool. I think the memories that come out of searching through like your history, if you do use cloud code or you do use codeex, uh, the memories are really impressive. Um, so I would definitely recommend doing that, but I'm going to skip that for now for the sake of this demo. Okay, I'm actually just going to put the put the Asian in YOLO mode. Let this run um, for a bit. Okay, so skipping ahead a bit, um you can see that like you can see that code is starting to make a lot of changes to its own memory. Um you can see that all these changes are happening inside of the locally synced copy of the memory. So I think if you had run this previously without context repositories enabled, what you'd see is the agent would be doing a lot of calls to like a memory tool. So it' be doing like memory insert, memory replace. Instead, it's making a lot of calls to like the standard file editing tools. So, it's using like bash, write, you know, edit. It's basically not using any specialized memory tools at all. It's just using the same tools that it would use to edit files on the computer, but it's editing its memory files inside of the context repository that are actually kind of like a local git sync of a remote kind of uh source of truth memory that with the source of truth memory that's living on the server. that's actually what's getting like put into the system prompt and everything. Um, but the agent is actually able to, you know, make much easier changes to that memory when it does it locally on this kind of like git copy as opposed to using like these these very uh specific memory tools. All right, so it's finally finished. Um, it looks like that took 5 minutes. U so yeah, not a ton of time. Um, kind of like right on target for I think what the light review does. And if you'd answer the question like how do you want to do this? Do you want me to go like really deep? Um, it would definitely take a lot more than 5 minutes. And if you were ingesting those codec files or those cloud code files um yeah it also probably took uh a little bit longer than five minutes. Okay. But you can see we started with just human and persona I believe. Um but now it's like kind of fully been broken down into a bunch of different like subfolders. Uh we have the human which has identity then has preferences memory workflow um has a bunch of stuff. And again I think the the coolest way to look at this is to use what we call the memory palace. Um, so to get there, you just see for/memory. Just hit O. So yeah, we can see kind of everything here. Uh, again, it's a little bit harder to read though. Um, so let's hit O. All right. So we're inside the memory palace. Um, you have a full breakdown of the context window. You can see system is taking like 10,00 tokens. Um, then tools. So you know, there's a decent amount of tools attached to lot of code by default. It's a very powerful harness. 1K tokens. And then the messages. So this me the messages includes like all the stuff it was just doing like the tool calls all the files to the memory system and so yeah the memory is actually not that large yet. Um so we can look at the files and yeah we can basically see like the full breakdown of what's in context and what's external. So the agent actually in this case has not put anything in external memory and I think that's probably pretty fair because a lot of the stuff you know that it's learning up front probably makes sense to it's really not that much information yet so it makes sense to like keep internally. I think what you should see is as the agent like learns more and more about you um and it continually is doing things like defragging its own memory system uh eventually you know things should start building up instead of external memory right because the thing about context repositories again not everything is treated uh equally. So stuff that's inside of the system folder, kind of this virtual folder. Um it's going inside of core memory. So it's getting pinned to the context window. And then stuff that's outside of system, it's visible to the agent as in like the agent can kind of see the directory tree, but the agent isn't going to see the contents of the memory by default. It has to like call a read on the local memory um to kind of like or the local sync of the memory to see what the memory contents actually are. Okay, so let's actually see if there's anything interesting in here. Okay, so it's clearly learning about like how to use the repo. uh it kind of has changed what its role is now. It says I am Charles's long-term coding collaborator on Leticode TypeScript CLI tool that I myself am an instance of. That's pretty funny. Um yeah, also you know these this is a markdown rendering. Um so like the actual file looks like this. We were looking at like the pretty version of it. Um I'm a stateful agent. I can make context. You know this is all true. Um okay that's cool. And yeah I think this is another pretty cool thing. Um it identified from the repo that it's using conventional commits. So kind of like wrote down a bunch of examples of like how commits or like the commits are written here. It has a lot of you has other information on like how the repo is published. Um it's kind of done a dissection of the way the source code is organized. So to be very clear like none of this information is actually inside of like the flat readme. Um it's not inside of our claw.md or agents.mmd that says inside of let code. This is all kind of generated like on the fly by the agent looking around the the repo. So yeah, what one thing um to point out is if you had done the version of this initialization and again you can run the initialization as much as many times as you want. You can run it you can run it once quickly and then run it again later um with the extended version on. But if you had done the version that pulls from like the claude and codeex uh chat history and you have like a very long you know you're a very heavy user of codeex CLI for example and you import that data or you let let a code look at it um I think what you'll notice is actually something like this you know this is very basic here it just it decided that my preferences are short direct um skip pleasantries you know this is actually not really from any data this was just pulled from the question it asked me directly um but what you'll see if you ingest your old uh chat logs is this stuff it becomes really detailed because an agent from all of your chat history with clock on codeex can actually like really infer a lot about how you work and kind of determine you know uh what what gets you frustrated like how generally you want things to to be done um yeah it's it's really cool so would recommend trying that out and yeah we'll make a separate video kind of covering that specifically but I think one of the coolest things here is the the fact that all these changes because they were done locally uh by the agent using bash. The agent committed everything. It made all the changes. It kind of like committed all those changes and then it pushed it to its remote uh you know ground truth state. We actually have like a full commit log of what happened. So the agent actually wrote this commit when it like redid its memory that says it actually tagged it with conventional commit and it explode flat memory. It's a 17 file hierarchical structure or 17 file hierarchal structure. Um, and it, you know, kind of lays out what it did. It, you know, puts a little tag on it saying it was the co-author. Um, and yeah, you can basically see that it deleted the top level human block. Um, and then it also deleted the personal block and then it kind of blew this up into something much more nested with a lot more detail. So yeah, because context repository is get backed, you get all of this uh, really cool version control functionality from git. I think the last thing I want to show in this demo is something that I think is pretty important to do if you're using let code as your primary coding agent. It is to turn on or tune the reflection settings. So you can do this by going um typing in sleep time. And this is going to determine how often a background uh reflection agent um or what we call sleeptime agent will run and kind of reflect on your conversation and decide to write that into memory. There are a few different ways this can work. Um, firstly, you can turn it off. So, if you don't really care that much about memory, um, you really want to conserve tokens and you don't want anything running um, in the background, uh, you can just turn this off. Um, you can also have it be like every n steps. So, this is actually going to be like really low, every two steps. I definitely wouldn't recommend doing that, but you could have like every 30 steps. So, like every 30 uh, messages in the transcript, a background reflection agent will get launched. I actually think probably the best way to set this up is to use the compaction events. So this would be every single time the context is compacted or kind of a summarization happens then a sleep timer or reflection agent gets launched. And I think this is actually a pretty natural way or it's a pretty natural time to run the sort of agent because the context is getting evicted. Something like sonnet with a 200k context window that is a lot of tokens. So I think generally it's kind of like a a reasonable balance of like how frequently you want to run this thing. And then the two different options here for how to run it is you can either have it be a reminder or force. The difference between these two is the reminder. Actually the way it works is it every end steps or on a comma action event the front the the main agent is going to be reminded hey why don't you run a background sleep time reflection agent. Why don't you run one in the background and it will kind of like uh look over things that have happened recently and update it memory and then the other way to do this is you force auto launch. In this case, there's no reminder and the the reflection agent will just get launched automatically. So yeah, I I think this is kind of subjective which one you want to choose. Um, if you want something closest to the old style of sleeptime compute, you probably want to do a step count. And you would set the step count to maybe be 20, um, 25, 50 even. And then you would have it be auto launch. So, because one thing that can happen with, uh, the reminder version is if the reminder comes in, when it's not when it's not forced, the the main agent actually might decide like, hey, I'm not going to do this. Like, if the agent is actually like pretty dumb, like if your main agent is using a really bad model, it might not even like understand that reminder. it might just completely ignore it if it's doing something else, right? Uh if you want to really optimize for reliability, like you always want the sleep time agent running, then would definitely recommend turning this on forced and then also probably setting this to compaction event. Okay, but for the purposes of this demo, I want to show you what happens when a sleepet time agent runs uh in the background because it's going to actually mutate the memory and it's going to push it and we can look at that inside of the inside of the memory pal. Um, I'm going to, for the sake of this video, change the trigger to be step comp based. I'm going to set the step comp to be pretty low. I'm set to five. And then I'm going to set it to be a reminder because if it's a reminder, it's a little bit more visible uh to to you, the user. So, I think it's a little bit easier to understand what's going on in a in a demo context. Okay. So, I updated the sleep time settings and now all I need to do is just uh spend five turns or five steps chatting with the agent. And I'm going to try to introduce some sort of like new information um that definitely is like going to be useful for the agent to write to memory. Okay. So I'm just saying uh yeah just wanted to chat a bit. Nothing to do workwise. Okay. So something you know kind of random. Um I'm wondering about differences in kind of wood. Why is some wood super plasticky? I I'm intentionally like saying something kind of weird just because that way it will clearly be written to like the memory as a preference. Okay, so it's telling me that it's not about the wood itself, it's about the finish. Okay, so just continuing this conversation about the wood thing. Um, the idea is that, you know, probably like the the reflection agent is going to decide to write into its memory that I have some sort of like fascination with wood. Okay, so yeah, I've been thinking about getting into woodworking. Okay, so I think we're getting pretty close. I think this next message should be what triggers it. So now continuing to talk about would hopefully Here we go. Okay. Okay. So what happened here is the agent got a reminder um kind of a system reminder that's hidden from the main transcript. And the reminder was uh hey you know consider launching a reflection sub aent so that the reflection sub aent can run in the background and take anything that's happened in the recent conversation and write it into memory. And the way background sub aents work in let code is generally speaking if let code launches a sub aent the sub aent is blocking. So the so this is what would happen if the main agent launches like an explore sub aent to explore parts of the repo. it generally will launch it not in the background. It'll launch it in the foreground and then it kind of is like waiting for the agent to finish. Once the agent finishes exploring, it tells it like what the result of the exploration is and then the main agent can continue. The sub agent tool, which is also called the task tool, it actually has the option to dispatch agents in the background. And the reminder about this reflection uh does encourage the agent to dispatch the the the reflection agent in the background, right? Because this reflection sub agent, it's kind of like an auxiliary task. it's not really related to this generally would be like coding but in this case like this random conversation we're having about wood. Uh so there's no need for like the the main agent to stall on this. Instead it's better for the reflection to just get dispatched. But the way this works in let code is a reflection agent or any background sub agent that gets run uh this is actually event based. So right now nothing is happening in the terminal. um I've stopped replying, but once the sub agent finishes running, the result of it will actually like trigger um it'll trigger like a new input to the agent. So the agent kind of like will get an event notification effectively and it'll be able to see what happened. So you can actually open up the AD and then you'll be able to see the sub agent working and it looks like it is getting close to finishing. Um so yeah, I'm going to go back because we'll be able to see the notification come in. Okay, so we're waiting for it to work. Um, and again, the way I got to that, um, was I just copied this link, put it into my browser, and I could kind of see the subision working. Um, but yeah, once it finishes, what it's going to do is it's going to like edit the memory. If it if it deems that something interesting has happened, it's going to commit it and it's going to push it. And I think actually it also does this in a work tree just in case there's like many parallel sub aents working on the memory at the same time. But yeah, once it pushes the memory, uh, then it kind of sends a message or it kind of indicates it's completed to the main agent. And yeah, so we're basically going to see in a few moments, um, there should be a notification that kind of pops in to let a code letting the main agent that I was chatting with about wood know that the reflection is finished. Okay, so the the ping just came in. You can see that it kind of like auto started. We didn't have to send any new input. Okay. And then I kind of like made an initial comment because um I did kind of stop the conversation. But if I continued the conversation then this would have been like a natural it would have like been naturally injected or naturally accued. Uh so yeah we could have continued the conversation and then like you know we could have done it for like 30 minutes and then like once the message came in it wouldn't have necessarily interrupted the conversation. It would have just like it would have just let the agent know very naturally that it the reflection had finished running. All right. All right, so back to the memory files. So we can see um core memory is now 4K tokens. Um I guess that was a lot of that was actually like the initial work where the main agent kind of like split it up from two files into many files. Um but yeah, if we go in and we look at actually let's jump into history, we can now see that a reflection agent. So it got kind of got tagged with reflection. It ran on the background um while we were having our conversation about wood. And I'm gonna guess Yeah, it well you can actually a really cool thing about this is it's all git, right? So it's it's doing the thing where like in the get commit message it kind of indicates at a very high level what was this change to memory that just happened. So if we open this up we can see that the the reflection sub agent it ran it said it reviewed messages from this date to this date the update summary was that it added a human interest memory documenting the woodworking interest. Uh it said that the user likes dark woods. That is kind of what I said. I like yeah all this is accurate. I like smooth shapes, natural finishes. And it says that it was prompted by a casual conversation about woodworking aesthetics. You can also see that the sub agent, it actually tagged uh its commit. So it basically said that hey my agent ID, the sub agent is this and this the parent agent that spawned me is this. Uh so this is all like very useful information. If you ever like want to know, hey, what happened here? Like what was the reasoning behind this message? Like what did the agent actually do u when it was making these memory edits? Well, you can just go into the AD uh or use the API and just like grab this agent ID and you can look at exactly what it's doing. And yeah, so you can see that basically there was one file change. It was 14 lines of insert of insertions, description, personal interest in hobbies, and you can see that as of 2026, February 20, February 21st, um interested in getting into woodworking, and it also said that I have aesthetic preferences about liking dark woods, um attracted to smooth, organic shapes. So yeah, I think that's a good place to stop. Hopefully that gave you a pretty good idea of how context repositories works. And yeah, if you want to try it out, it's in the latest Letter code version. Download Leta Code, grab the latest version, you know, get your agent to generate some memories, do some reflection, and then for/memory and hit O to pop open this context palace. And yeah, you'll basically be able to see all of the memories inside of your context repository. And then also all of the changes that have been made. Um, so yeah, I I I think this is like the coolest part, being able to see these reflection agents that run in the background and then see like exactly what they were doing at the time if you want to open their agent ID. Um, and then yeah, basically seeing like all these incremental changes happening to memory u in this sort of git viewer. So yeah, hope you enjoyed. Let us know what you think. Catch us on Discord and yeah, have fun with it. See you.
