# How to talk to your AI agent with Telegram

**Video ID:** 6baCKzLmslQ
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6baCKzLmslQ

---

## Transcript

Hey everyone, it is Cameron here at Leta and today I'm going to talk about a Telegram bot that I built to talk to any of your Leta agents while you're on the go. So I have this personal knowledge manager that I built a little while ago. And uh this knowledge manager kind of handles everything that I need to know. Um, it has 20 separate memory blocks that help understand about like how I want to learn, what I want to know, things that I'm thinking about, all sorts of things like that. I wanted to be able to talk to this agent no matter where I was, but it wasn't really set up for me to use this in kind of a casual setting. The way most people interact with their agents in LEA is through the AD, the agent development environment. So, let's say I'm taking a look here at this um this essay by Dario Amade called Machines of Loving Grace. This is his kind of like speculative like think piece about uh like the future of artificial general intelligence. And of course, I'm not going to read any of this, right? This is super long. It's like really thoughtful. There's too many words in here. Like I don't want to deal with any of this. I just want to give it to like my agent who knows me very well and can contextualize all this for me. So I'll typically just copy it like this and then I'll go into my AD and dump it here, right? And so I have tools set up for my agent so that it'll go like see ah okay this is a web page. You'll see that it's starting starting to fetch the web page. It'll insert a piece of archival memory to track what it has learned from that web page. All right. And then when it's finished reading, I'll get this kind of key takeaways report. And this is like a thing I've hashed out with my agent like this is what I want to see when I give you a web page. I want to ask you questions, stuff like that. So it says, "This is a fascinating strategic document from anthropic CEO. Talks about relevance to my work. It validates your show don't tell approach to grandio claims. This is my approach to like developer advocacy and kind of like trying to show people how to use various technical tools, you know?" So this is this is this is like a common way that I use my knowledge manager. This can be kind of a pain, right? Cuz like when I'm on the go, I don't really want to open up the ad. I just, you know, like I'm not doing development. I'm just trying to get information into my agent. And so I was like, "Okay, well, what's a way to do that?" Well, Telegram, Telegram, if you don't know, is a super developer friendly chat app. My brother and I and, you know, his friends are on here. There's a there's a big group of like degenerate developer operations people over here. And uh so I was like, okay, well, I'll just build a bot. So I can text my bot at whatever time and it will respond to me and I'll get kind of like the ADE light experience uh where I can just open my phone. I have a welldesigned user interface that somebody else maintains. Not my problem. I'm not a front-end person. Um, and I can just send it information. Let me just show you how this works and then I'll talk about what's going on under the hood. So, as we can see here, we have this chat history. So, let's take a look here at this blog post that we put out on May 14th, which is about memory blocks, which are these kind of like components of Leta agents that allow the agent to put pieces of particular memory away for later reference. I'm just going to copy this. Go over to Telegram here. Just paste the link in here with whatever whatever you want. Um, doing a YouTube video here. Could you take a look at this link and let us know what you think? Paste the link. Hit enter. You'll start seeing some little typing indicators up here once the server boots up. Then I get my response back from the agent. And I've got it so that it spits out the tool calls. Something just like what you see in the ADE. So every time the agent uses a tool, you get a message like this. And it says, hey, I'm using the tool. I'm fetching the web page. And then you'll see the arguments that the agent generated to that tool. And so it says, okay, I'm going to use fetch web page and then I'm going to go get the URL that you posted. So it saw that I posted a link, went and go downloaded the page. For the YouTube video, here's what works well and what to consider. Um, for the YouTube stuff, the blog establishes the foundation power perfectly. Memory blocks are what make the Telegram plug-in powerful. Not super. I mean, yeah. I mean, that's what's happening. It's the agent. It's failing to brag that it's the reason that the Telegram plugin is nice. Yeah. So, if you read through this, there's like some hit or miss stuff in there. You know, it's still a robot. Like, they don't quite nail it all the time. So, I like this part a lot. Um, the blog provides excellent technical foundation for explaining why the Telegram plug-in is different. It's not just another chatbot interface. It's persistent AI that travels with you across platforms. It's really nice being able to just hook your agent into whatever communication app you want to. You can do this with Slack. You can do this with basically anything that has an SDK. I also have Zapier integration. So, every single social media post I have goes straight into my social media agent so that it understands how I'm thinking and talking. Let's go back to the ADE. So, you can see what this stuff looks like inside of the ADE. Because this is the same agent, their history is replicated across every place that you talk to it, no matter whether it's Discord or Telegram or whatever. And then of course we see our message, you know, I've appended some stuff here that says tells the agent like where this message is coming from. So it sees that it's coming from Telegram me. Um and then the content of that message. Um then we see the fetch webpage call that it had and then the write up that it just gave me. The advantage of the lettuce server is that it centralizes all of the messages that your agent has ever had. It's the same agent no matter where you are. The advantage of using Telegram is that it's just really developer friendly. I mean, there's there's really not a lot of tools that are as developer friendly as Telegram is. And um it was remarkably simple to uh to to hook my agent into Telegram. So, kudos to them for making really good software. Let's talk about how this works. When I send a message in Telegram to my agent, we need to get it to the lettuce server somehow. We can't just message the lettuce server directly because we can't actually just run code inside of Telegram. So, Telegram supports something that's called a web hook. And what that means is that when I send Telegram a message, I can configure Telegram to relay that message to a server of my choice and then that server just does stuff with whatever the message is. In our case, that's receive the message that I sent in Telegram and then, you know, prepend it, you know, put some put some text on there that says this is coming from Cameron. It's a Telegram message. Here's the content. And then forward that onto the Leta server. Doing that is like kind of annoying, right? because you have to set up like this like server setup and it can be really annoying. You know, I'm not an infrastructure person and I'm not a web person and so anytime there's like server magic that needs to happen, I get like clammy and cold sweats and I freak out a little bit. So I chose to use one of my favorite platforms which is called modal. Modal helps you very easily build infrastructure for serverless environments. And so in our our case, this means that we can have a service on modal where I can point telegram to the service that I have on modal and then that will spin up a server temporarily for a few seconds that will route that message back to my agent. Modal makes this super super easy. If you've ever tried to do any kind of infrastructure or serverless stuff or whatever, you should probably try modal because it will just make your life much much easier. And um so I'll just like show you very briefly how it is that I got this to work with Telegram and let me show you really quickly what happens on the modal dashboard when I send a message to Telegram. Let's go to Telegram. I'll give you the the playbyplay as to what's happening. I wrote, "Hey, what do you think about modal?" Hit enter. All right. Now it's off to the races. Telegram has received this and it's going to our modal server. Telegram web hook is just a function on modal that receives a message from telegram and then says and that sends a message back that says hey we got it you're good and this prevents telegram from like thinking that our server is down and the reason that we tell like hey thanks we got it we'll get back to you later without sending an actual response from our agent is that sometimes your agent can run for a very long time right you want your agent to run asynchronously and kind of like update you as it goes along so you'll see here this execution time was about 169 milliseconds in part because my container had died because I don't ping this that much. And then this is actually just going to call a separate function once it receives. It says, "Okay, I got this message from Telegram. I'll ceue it up so that the other handler can deal with things." We go back. We'll see process message async. And then we'll see we just got this call. It took 20 seconds to execute. And we can see the logs here where it processed each of the messages from our agent, our letter agent, and then relays them back to Telegram. And so when we go, we see archival memory search. I don't see modal specifically in my memory archives. Are you asking about modal labs? The serverless compute platform or something else, right? So we go from Telegram to our modal service to a letter server. The letter server goes back to modal and the modal goes back to Telegram. And that's how we get these messages like this. The best part about using this Telegram bot to talk to your Leta agent is that anything that you do to improve your agent anywhere else will also be reflected in what's on Telegram, right? Because you're talking to the same agent. I can go modify tools for example, right? For example, there's this uh RO D20 tool that we have. So, I can just hit attach tool and I'll go back. I can see it's available in my tool manager for this agent. Then, I'm going to go back to Telegram here. roll 20-sided die. If you get 15 or higher, you win. And then we see our incoming message from Telegram right here. And then we see that it called the roll d20 tool and then it rolled a nine and then lost. So that's in the ADE, but we also see that inside of Telegram. And then when you're done here, you just detach the tool so that our agent doesn't roll a D20 later because I don't really need that functionality in my agent. But yeah, go ahead and give it a shot. Like try playing around with it. Uh the code is relatively new so if you find any bugs or anything, you know, please let us know. I'm happy to fix them because I I've been a huge I've been using this all the time now. Like um previously when I talked to my agent, I would go into the AD and I would just kind of like chitchat with it. So the Telegram setup has just been excellent. So give it a shot. Try and build your own little agent. You can talk to it on Telegram on the go. It's pretty pretty easy to set up. You'll need modal aa server account. I recommend leta cloud, but you can self-host if you like. And then you also need to have a Telegram bot set up which is very easy to navigate. Yeah, I hope you enjoy. Um and uh happy hacking everybody. [Music]
