# Letta Discord Office Hours: September 25th, 2025

**Video ID:** UoUnApXDcZ8
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UoUnApXDcZ8

---

## Transcript

Anyway, hello. My name is Cameron and I work here at Leta and uh so I figured today we're just going to kind of like chitchat. I'll give you like some some general updates. Um we only have one like kind of big userfacing uh change that people should be aware of. Um and then we have some like kind of like backend stuff that we've been doing that might be interesting to some people who do like more infrastructural stuff. Um but um yeah, so the first big thing then and we're going to make like a more public announcement about this. Um let me see here. I'll pull I'll pull up the link and put it inside of here. Okay. So we have like recently updated our support for Versel's AI SDK from version four to version five. Um and um version five brought a bunch of like changes with it. Well, let me back up and just like give you an overview of what that actually is. So the AI SDK is Verscell's approach to unify um like a stand like make a standardized interface for various like inference providers for especially for like userfacing stuff. So if you want to build like applications or websites or whatever that have some kind of like a language model component um Verscell's AI SDK provides support for how to do that. Um and so you can talk to Leta agents using the AI SDK. Previously we only supported version 4. Um but it has since been updated to version five. Um version five brought a bunch of updates. Um a lot of them were like quality of life such as like type safety. Um um but now there's a significant more like there's a significantly higher amount of control that you can give to uh let us like inference side when you send us a message because they add allow you to like control provider options inside of it. So if you're a person who does any like front-end work with the AI SDK, this is a good thing to go play with. Um so we'll be updating some examples and things like that so you can start working with it. Um, and then I'll show you the link to our code here. Let's see. Let me go pull that up. Yeah. Okay. Verscell AI SDK provider. Okay. So, if you want to go mess with that, um, there is the code inside of that. This should work already. Um, and then we're going to be updating the docs on the Versell website very shortly. So, if it's not already done. So um so that's kind of like the big userf facing changes where we now have just like a more consistent coherent interface. So you can build the exact same technical infrastructure that you would for any language model provider um in whatever your like front-end application is and then just hot swap it with whatever inference engine you want. Um so that part has been updated. Um, and then let's see. And then the kind of like big changes. Uh, last week was like kind of a an interesting mad dash. Um, we've been making some architectural revisions to how Leta Cloud may work at scale. So, one of those things was we um migrated like kind of our execution engine for agent loops to something called temporal. And temporal makes it much much easier to like reschedu things in the event of errors. So the reason that we did this um was we had a bunch of like kind of asynchronous code that we were running underneath the hood that was like um uh a little clunky as far as I understand and kind of like difficult to debug. Um so if you've ever received that like you know a server error has has occurred please contact support red bar just above the text me just above the input box when you send a message you know your agent like kind of ghosts you call that a sad and um uh the hope is that by switching to temporal underneath the hood we can actually give you a ton of visibility about exactly what went wrong. Um and that also allows us to kind of fix things a lot easier. So that is currently not available to anyone uh except for us and some of our enterprise customers. Um so um so we're still testing that and just like seeing if it works and like evaluating whether or not we can scale it out and stuff like that. So that's a on the reliability on the Linux cloud side. Um, so this is we're not super clear on how this is going to affect the open source self-hosted stuff because temporal is pretty complicated to maintain and it's very difficult to stand up on your side if you're self-hosted. Um, you know, like we have somebody like full-time who works on this like integration between the two and maintaining the infrastructure to like run temporal um underneath the hood. So, um, if you are self-hosted, I doubt that you are likely to experience any changes as a result of temporal. Um, at least for now, um, but that's an active discussion as we like figure out, you know, whether or not temporal works for us and how it works and like kind of our learnings as we go along. So, we may actually write a case study about it because it was like uh it was pretty gnarly. Uh, the engineering team did some really good work. Um and then we have um um the other thing was we migrated our backend database to planet scale if you know them. So previously I think we were just using I think we might have been self-hosted or or like using our own database but we we migrated to somebody managed. Um so there was a big migration on sometime at the end of last week. Um that was a big move. So um so we're doing just like pretty substantial architectural revisions to reduce latency and improve improve cloud performance such that it's like uh just an extremely good uh experience to run by cloud. So um so few of those changes will impact anybody who's self-hosted. Um uh those are kind of like the big userfacing stuff. Um, and then cloud infrastructure type things. Um, and I think those are the primary things I want to go over that are like, you know, that we mostly covered up. Obviously, there's like always like UI changes and bug fixes and things like that that are going along. And so, everybody who like reports stuff and support, thank you very much for doing that. I appreciate it. So, they're being entered into our our ticket system. And uh we're going to kind of like filter through more of those as we go along. So um um so yeah, thank you very much for all the bug reports, everybody. Um and uh I'm trying I'm trying to keep up. So I I I hope nobody's too mad at how slow I am. Um, okay. So, I think I'd open up to questions and see if anybody has stuff they want to share or what they're working on or anything they want to know the status of. Um, so you can ask in the chat or you can like raise your hand and uh ask to speak on stage and then uh I can give you uh give you the microphone. Um, as far as the proxy compatible endpoint is concerned, I don't think that's currently a high priority for us. Um um but I know that will sergeant has Will Sergeant has a proxy that I think works. I haven't tried it, but I know that it's like probably the closest thing that we have. Um, as far as us having first party support for for an OpenAI compatible proxy, you know, I think I think we should. Um, and uh I I think we should, but I don't know where it is on the road map. Um um if you're in the front end side, if you're in like versell world, then it's like doable, but like I know that like there's definitely a split between, you know, like the TypeScript people use like the AIDK. Everybody on the Python side ends up using the OpenAI compatible proxy. Um so I do think it's an important thing for us to do and I can try and like have a broader discussion about it with the team because I do think it's an important feature because that was the first thing that I assumed when I started working here. I was like, how do I just like talk to my agents with the endpoint, right? Because it's like a very natural assumption. Um, so yeah, so I will I will um I'll try and have a broader conversation about it today. Um, oh, Destin has a question about uh support for the responses API. So I know I actually don't know this. Um, I think there's like a PR sitting somewhere. I don't know if it's been merged in yet. Um, all right. So, all right. So, it has been merged, but I believe you have to have a specific agent type, and it's uh it may be Leta agent V1. Um, so let me actually check that. Um Um, I'm going to pull up our Let's see if it actually made it into our architecture guide. Um, type. There it is. Agent type. Yeah, I don't know how easy it is for us to access right now, but um but I think it seems like it is available. So, you should if you know this will particular this will affect basically the GPD5 models because they've been terrible for a while um because we weren't like handling uh reasoning state correctly. Um so it should work for for uh particular architecture. So, I'll make a note to send more information out about that um um um so that people have it accessible. But very very good question. Thank you for thank you for reminding me about that, Dustin. Um streaming support for Olama I actually don't know. I think for VLM it my sense is for VLM it should probably work. Um uh but I haven't tried it. Um token streaming for check in on that one. Um and the LLM in general. I wish I think uh I wish just in general like the I don't know how much we actually tested BLM but it's like the best inference provider like I you know I know that people are like you know most people who are like kind of hobbyists use and LM Studio and stuff but like if you do anything like at kind of even moderate scale like VLM is just awesome. Um although I think XAI uses SG lang um which surprised me. Um and I know that uh noose research also uses SG lang um but you know my general preference is for BLM. So okay this tiny little conference room has opened up so I'm gonna move and sit in there. Um okay hold on. All right moving my stuff. All right. Okay. Um, these are all great questions. Anyone have other questions they want to bring up? These are all excellent. Thank you for keeping me honest and reminding me what we do. Like this is the thing I've noticed about working at Leta is like so much stuff just like happens and I don't notice. like there is um I've never ever ever had a problem working somewhere where there is simply too much to communicate. Um so this stuff is all very useful for for um reminding me to ask people at the company what the hell is happening. Um um and then uh some people um who are like the the winners of the hackathon, you guys should be receiving swag relatively soon. Um and I may start doing like giveaways and stuff because we got we finally got all of our swag. So we have shirts. Uh actually hold on. Check out the back of this shirt because it's extremely cool. I don't know if that works. Boom. So that's cool. And then we have a bunch of like glasses and bottles and cups and uh some hats. Um stuff like that. So um uh so yeah, I can send some people stuff. Um all right. Um anyone else have any like projects they want to share or anything that they're working on that they're excited about? Oh yeah, hit me with the one last question. Yes, regarding community support. See what else here do I have? Um, if someone wants to lend a hand, what are tasks worth focusing on? This is a good question. I know that we have So, there's one thing that's been on our like to-do list um that we haven't gotten like really nailed down is um setting up a road map because we a lot of our development happens um kind of internally. is, you know, because we like um we kind of move at this like break neck pace um and just kind of like change a bunch of stuff, but I think we don't have as good of a handle. Yeah. Boot. We I don't think we have as good a handle on how to get community um like community support like easier to be involved with, right? So, we have like a contributing guide that like um I think it's like moderately helpful, but I don't think we have a good way of saying like if you want to add this, please go ahead and try um and like we can try and support you as best as we can and then flag that feature as like community supported and there's like possibly not something that we want to like that we can't support or maintain on our side due to like limited resources. Um, so, um, I think Sarah and Charles and I and some of the other people need to sit down and like figure out one, what features are available, how we can get people like contributing like more easily, and then two, providing a road map of like actual features and stuff that we want to see within like, you know, um, like the first half of 2026 or just like, you know, the the general feature support that we need to to to manage better. Um, so I want to see if I can kind of pin pin people down. Um, but yeah, open source support is like, you know, you know, we started from open source. you know, MEGPT was like a very very very actively developed community project and you know, basically all of Leta is built on that community effort and um you know, it's there's been a lot of like complicated growing pains as like you know trying to figure out like this like proprietary component with like let a cloud and how to do CI/CD and where does that live in like our monor repo or is it in the core side and um you know just kind of like maintaining essentially different feature sets um or partially different feature sets across the proprietary version and the open source version let a core and um so I think we're because we're still trying to figure out exactly how that functions internally for us it's been like um slower it's been like a harder thing for us to kind of figure out exactly where to you um like how to provide very precise focus to open source contributors who want to help and so uh that's like definitely on like a priority on my side is like figuring out how to like actually get people to like help out play around because it's really fun to build on Letta. Um so um so yeah, I will figure that out and try and pin pin the people down about that. Let me make a note. And then LinkedIn had a question about um OSS and doing a release soon. Um, so part of this is that we're trying to do a v1 release and v1 is going to be breaking. Uh, so we're trying to accumulate changes so that um we don't like we want to get all of the breaking changes in all at once. I can see if we can cut a release now um but we may actually switch to a v1 release candidate instead. Um so um so people should be aware we're going to offer we're going to start like putting together a migration guide and things like that. Most of your simple use cases like you know sending messages and things like that won't change. Um but there will be a lot of you know MISK endpoint changes like you know sources have been changed to folders and all this kind of stuff. So we're going to like kind of prune and like tidy everything up so that when v1 releases it will be much cleaner. Um um it wasn't already mentioned. I think the V1 SDK like breaking stuff like um we're going to need to start ramping up just like general communication about what's changing and um quite a few things are changing. So I just need to like actually start writing them down and like putting them like in a forum post or something that's just like you know here is here is exactly what's happening. Um, so, uh, yeah, we'll work on that and kind of get it get it, uh, get it out to everybody, but I'll figure out if we can cut a release now. Um, because there have been like changes and fixes and, you know, all sorts of things like that. Um, can we OSS release? Okay, I took note. Thank you, Plankton. Yes, there is merch now. I am wearing merch. Um I may start doing some giveaways. So um I'll see if I can add like a little uh um we can do like a little contest and like send some shirts to people or whatever because they're nice. They're cool. Um we have some hats. I don't I'm not like the biggest fan of the hats. Um but uh we'll send those out. We have glasses and drink wares and you know uh I like the shirts especially. Um so I've been wearing those a lot. Um, and uh, yeah, there is merch. Um, okay. And then Jason had a question about how to get up to speed for how to do the rules for memory block swapping. Um, uh, so for memory block swapping, it depends on whether you want to do that agentically, such as allowing your agent to have tools for dynamic memory management. If that is the case, that is very difficult to do because of the way that our agent loop works currently. So the way that the agent loop works is that you pass in an agent state uh into the um into the tool call and that is a pickled version of the agent. It's like a canned inside of the actual server. Um, and what happens is if you use the API endpoint to go try and uh change which blocks are available, um, you may have a disjoint between what is inside of the pickled agent state and the version of the, uh, the thing that you've modified using the endpoint. And so, uh, this agent state has really screwed us on being able to do agentically, uh, like dynamic agentic memory. It is possible in some cases, particularly if you're detaching. If you're adding blocks, it's a little clunkier. You may run into weird errors. This stuff is going to be overhauled. The idea is that essentially we're just going to give you a letter client inside and then we're going to give you the agent ID because those are really the only two things. And then you would just directly go through the client API instead. Um, and that would allow like once that happens, agentic like dynamic memory management is just like easy. Um, so, um, I think that's part of like ongoing changes to how the agent loop functions, but I need to check in on like just the general like what's happening with that. Um, check in on agent state. Okay. Um, let's see. Um and then Jason also had a following question there which is like I'm interested in um this for the coding application that and also figuring out how to take advantage of the archival memory to ingest large chunks of code and documentation. So ingesting code and stuff is uh interesting because um archival memory is in my view it's not particularly easy to modify right now and modifying like you know the thing that you want to be able to do with archival memory is identify it by path essentially. You can do this like you know one thing you can do is because we've added tags you can insert archival memories with tags that are like you know the name of the repo. So for example leta/let leta use that as the the tag for that archival memory and then put the na the path inside of like the very top of the archival memory. So you can retrieve it using full text search. Um, so that would be my guess if you wanted to do like kind of like naive um management of code inside of archival memory. Um, it's like maybe a little clunky. I don't know of people who've like seriously tried it yet. I know of people who've tried to use file system for it. And file system like won't work super well if you have like, you know, more than 100 files or more than 100 like uh, you know, pieces of documentation and code. Um because like our you know uh file system was intended to like mimic this like cloud code like you have a handful of files type structure. Um so um you know I think it's possible with archival memory. It's going to be like a little hacky um but it's very doable. Um so let me see if I can like um uh example of code uh with archival. Okay. That is a good idea though. Thank you. Um, let's see. Um, let's see here. There's a CLI version of a group chat thing. Yes, you should send me that. Um, question. Um, Bowen asked about whether or not it's possible to use custom inference providers like open router or hugging face with a cloud very soon. So one of the re one of the things is that we're switching over to open um uh uh the fourth version of the agent loop is that we will no longer require tool calls. So when it is that that because open router is terrible, they will just often just like send you like we can't enforce tool calling on the side of open router because open router is like has abysmal support for tool calling. like it's meant like open router is for like uh it's not for serious people. It's for like people who want something that's like cheap and like a bunch of models and um uh so basically we're going to remove that requirement and if open router sends you from our perspective what is essentially garbage, we'll put it in an assistant message. So it's just like a normal chat thing and that requires some modifications to uh uh to the agent loop. So unlet cloud it will be entirely possible for you to start using grock and Sarah Ross and open router and all of those like providers who just like don't do tool calling correctly. So if you're running into this problem like all these people try open router they're like how do I get open router to work and we're like you can't because it's a bad service. Like open router is not a good service. Um it's it's meant it's it's a toy and um that's why we haven't supported it is because it more or less doesn't function with Leta because it's not meant for serious agent workflows. It's it's it's meant for meant for play. Um but we will it will be broadly available if you don't mind the fact that it just like doesn't care about tool rules or like tool calling or anything like that. Um, oh, that's interesting with Rue, but not Leta. I'm curious. That's That's um I Do you always get it to work with Rue? That's very interesting. Oh, it doesn't rely on tool calling. Okay, that's probably why. Um because we uh yeah, Leta is only tool calling. When you go through a Leta agent, it's like you have to call a tool. Like I don't you know, like if your agent is like certainly I'm just going to go ahead and write this thing for you and then it does tool call, you're like you did it wrong, buddy. Like stop. Like if you didn't call a tool immediately, you're done. Uh it's it's over. Um but we will relax that. So it will be possible to use all of these mis miscellaneous providers. Um so don't worry about that. It will be available. Um people can use open router support and we will display a little warning triangle that says hey we notice that you're using open router. Uh this is just be aware this is not a good service and you may have like serious deteriorations in performance. Um u but yeah the open router stuff I think we just need to like more broadly communicate because it's you know everybody tries open router and it doesn't work and um uh we just can be clearer about that but but thank you for asking. Um um let's see. Yeah, Plankton mentioned the pinned issue for the v1 release and it is stale so we have to sit down and do it. um like now um or at least very soon um yeah Hermes 4 I'm talking to technium at uh news research tomorrow so I'll see if we can talk about it because you know Hermes 4 does tool calling fairly well um and uh their API supports some stuff so we may be able to like talk to them about like how to run like Hermes directly through the news research endpoint instead um because I think that that uh that wouldn't be too hard. So um let's see deep in front. I don't know too much about it. Uh oh, is is um I'm surprised that there's not only direct from news. Like I would have suspected that uh like Sarah Bros or whoever. Um that's weird. Let me talk to them about that. Can you like message me some stuff about like whatever you noticed about the endpoint because I I'll bring it up with Ryan or Technium tomorrow and see if I can um uh talk about it a little more. Um uh Jason asks about the best offline and local models to use for Leta nowadays. So uh this varies depending on your use case. Um I think most people anecdotally prefer Quen 3. Um, we do a lot of experiments with Quen 3 locally and Quen 3 is just like it's a solid model. It does tool calling extremely well. Um, and uh, like Alibaba just makes great models. So for most use cases, I would just recommend Quen 3. GPTOSS is not bad. Um, as far as tool calling is concerned. OpenAI uses a lot of tool calling. So like GPT OSS is like fine. Um, I haven't heard a lot of people wowed with it, but it tends to do tool calling, memory operations, things like that passively. Um, I find it to be a little boring. Uh, but that's a lot of OpenAI models are a little boring. Um, yeah, unsurprising. That's, you know, Quinn Quinn is magic. Like Quinn is an incredible model. um uh they they do amazing stuff. So, I'm very very happy that like people use it and that it's like um um that it works for them. Um then let's see what else. Um people still use Mistl small. That's a common one that we see. Um I personally don't care for Mistl. I've never been like wowed by it. Um, but I would say those are the big model families that people tend to use. Some people use Gemma. I've heard terrible things about Gemma. So like Gemma, I don't know what the hell's going on with Gemma, but it doesn't seem to like the tool calling structure um that we use. Somebody was I think I was talking to somebody yesterday who was like trying to run uh like a 1.7B uh Gemma model with like this super heavy like 4bit quant or whatever the hell and it just like completely fell apart and I was like yeah like Jim's not that good already and like if you lose it like that like it's just it's just not going to work. Um, so, um, yeah, I get this I get this kind of stuff a lot. Um, um, but I want to start, uh, slowly wrapping up. So, if there's like other questions, um, I want to like get one or two more in and see what people have. Yeah, anything that's designed for tool calling or like kind of agentic workflows is good. So like that's why the GPTO OSS stuff is good because OpenAI is very fixated on like you know like uh OpenAI an entropic they have they understand that like chat bots are not the thing anymore like they won't be the thing the thing is like actually agents and things that interact very seamlessly with between tools and talking and um uh so anything that either of them puts out same thing with Quen Quen understand like Alibaba understands the future is like agentic kind of uh tool calling style agents. Um so we'll start seeing more of those providers out. I think Mistral is still working on it. I think they're like a little behind on the tool calling front. Um uh Google Gemini, I don't know why it is that the smaller models like the OSS models don't really work that well for tool calling given that Gemini is awesome at tool calling. Um, so, um, uh, yeah, those are the general takes on like what works and what doesn't for offline and local. Um, but, uh, yeah, that's a good question. I should write write something up about that and just like stick it on the forum with like general recommendations because it's like, um, you know, I get that question like intermittently. Okay. Gotcha. We should also I don't know if we've put open source stuff like that on the um our leaderboard, but we have the leaderboard, right? Where where would we put that? Um yeah, we have we have some stuff inside of uh inside of the leaderboard. Um but it's like yeah, Quinn 3 is on there. Quinn 3 does reasonably good. We have to update the the leaderboard. We have it uh I think we have the code for pushing that stuff out. Um but it needs to be updated because like GPT5 is missing. Um which is a big one. Um, and I think we have the infrastructure to run it, but we either have run it and haven't put it up or it just needs to be run and put up. So, the we expect the leaderboard to be updated relatively soon. Okay. All right. Um, I have time for maybe one more question if people have them. Uh, otherwise I'm going to jump off and then start badgering everybody. I've got like 10 bullet points or something in here I'm gonna follow up on. Um, so I'll I'll talk to everybody about stuff and then I'll try and post an update in general. Um, are we thinking of running Kimmy K2? I think I remember seeing Kevin who's like our lead researcher run something on K2. Um, I don't know about GLM uh or Minimax. Uh, K2 I would expect to see and Opus is not there either, which is odd. Um, that may just be because of cost. Um, and also timing. Uh, so yeah, we have like stuff that we need to update, but um, let me follow up on that. Yeah, I would throw the price graph. It's just like $10 or whatever. Opus is so expensive. Um, but okay, I'm going to call it there for the day. Uh, people hop in on like general or whatever. We've got questions. $75 per million tokens. Jesus. Jesus. Okay, Anthropic, I understand you think you've got good models and they do. I'm not going to pay that much. Yeah, that's terrible. That's insane. That's insane. Gross. I would love to be anthropic right now. Um, but thank you everybody very much for attending and uh thanks for like questions and concerns and comments. It's super helpful to have everybody like kind of chime in and as per usual um appreciate you making like the Discord actually a very fun place to be on. So um and thanks for sharing what you're working on. It's always great. So I'll talk to everybody next week at the same time and uh have a lovely day.
