# "Ralph Wiggum" mode: run your AI agents in an infinite loop

**Video ID:** zksDUdutHgA
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zksDUdutHgA

---

## Transcript

Hey everyone, Charles from Leta here. So today I want to make a quick video covering Ralph Wig mode. Kind of a goofy named after a Simpsons character. Uh it's basically a technique to wrap your agent harness in a loop to run your agents effectively for longer with like a force continuation. The name is pretty silly, but it's a very kind of general purpose, very powerful technique. And at Leto, we actually think it's it's a very useful technique. Um so much so that we actually shipped Ralph Wigan mode as an official mode inside of the letter code uh the let code harness. So if you download the latest version of let code npm install it and you for/alph or yolo Ralph and you hit enter you'll actually enter Ralph mode inside of the terminal. Um so it's like fully built in now to let code and the reason we did that is because we think it's actually a very general purpose and very cool idea. So I wanted to make a quick video that kind of explains like firstly like what this technique is and why it's intuitive. Uh it's it's very simple. So I think it's important to actually look at like the prompts that are being sent. Um because you know Ralph mode altogether it's really kind of a combination of two different prompts and just some automated looping and also kind of touch on like what the intuition is. So, I've seen like, you know, there's a definitely a lot of content on this online. Um, but I don't think I've really seen any videos or any blogs that really try to poke at like uh more of the intuition behind why it works. Like, like what were we doing before this that actually is now being automated by Ralph Mode. So, I think if you look at the prompts themselves, you'll find that actually what Ralph Mode is doing is likely something that you actually do already with your agents and all that's happening is this is Ralph Mode is kind of like automating it for you. And of course, if you don't know what Ralph mode is, I did kind of want to explain it more for first principles. Um, and then show you like inside of Leticode, what it's useful for. So like why would you ever want to use it? And when you do use it, like what is actually happening and how is it actually working like what are the actual prompts that are going in to the agent that are being automated by kind of enabling this Ralph mode. So yeah, as always, I'll leave uh timestamps in the description. And so if you already know, you know, what val mode is and you just want to jump to the demo to kind of see how it works in action, um, feel free to jump around. But yeah, I think it's a really cool idea. So definitely worth diving into. And yeah, to preface the video, um, if you want to look at the original blog describing this technique from back in July, uh, just, you know, Google search, um, Jeff Holl's blog, Ralph Wim, a software engineer, and you'll find it. Um, so yeah, this is, if you want to read like the original version, um, definitely check this out. So before we jump into Ralph mode, I think it's worth kind of breaking down what the modern LM agent loop looks like. So you know between let code, cloud code, codecs, like all the agent harnesses, they're running an LM, a language model in a loop and practically speaking like all the main um main agent loops kind of look the same now. I think you maybe a year ago uh people were kind of like trying different things, but I think everyone's kind of standardized on the same general agent loop. Okay, so you have basically the language model. Uh so this is the main thing that is you know running on the GPU on the inference server. It's getting tokens in and spitting tokens out. Uh the input to this like the lower level API is going to be uh some user input. So you know fix this bug for me. How's the weather? How's the weather today? How are you doing? Uh anything like that. And then this gets fed to the LM as input tokens or prompt tokens. And then the language model is going to output tokens. Um but the tokens are basically going to get classified into three different buckets. Um it's going to be reasoning tokens. It's going to be uh text tokens. So kind of like output uh basically spoken word like output of the language model um or output of the agent and then tool calls. So to give you a concrete example, the user might say something like you know whose computer am I on? And the language model will then decide to do uh in this case um let's say it does all three of these things. It outputs all three. So the reasoning it might say or might think to itself hm let me try uh print working print working directory pwd the Unix command to see where I am and then it will kind of say or like output this text uh I'll check for you. So the language model is outputting this kind of with the intention that the user is going to read it. And then the last thing the language model does here is it's outputting the tokens in some sort of format where it's requesting a tool be called. And in this case it's requesting that the bash tool is called with the arguments or the command um print working directory. So this is kind of like one forward pass of the language model inside of the loop. So where does the actual loop come in? It's basically just determined on whether or not there were tool calls. So if there was no tool call uh you know if if the agent had said something like you know reasoning I'm not really sure and then it had said in the text uh what do you mean by whose computer or what should I do? Um and it didn't output any tool calls this entire thing will end. Basically there was no tool calls so we stop and when we stop at that point it's like requesting more user input. So, so yeah, stopping is basically yielding control and now it's in the user's kind of hands to to restart this loop or like to do another round of it. Um, but the loop continues if there were tool calls. So, if there was a tool call like in this case um bash print working directory. So, we we kind of follow this flowchart. Yes, there was a tool call. Then what you do is you execute the tool. And in this case, the agent is uh asking to execute bash print working directory. On a computer, this might output uh on a Unix system might output something like this for slash users for slashcpacker. So my handle uh so this is the result of the tool execution and then we actually just pass this tool execution and like the whole chain of events back to the language model and the language model gets to go for round two. So on round two it might say it's going to now consider this new information and instead it might actually decide to stop the loop by saying um by reasoning oh we're on you know I found out whose computer it is. it's user Cacker and then the output text will be you know instead of being I'll check for you the output text in this version of loop is um it's Cacker's you know computer something like this so yeah very simply summarized basically the modern LM agent loop is no tool call stop loop yes tool call continue loop okay so if you're if you're a very heavy user of you know claw codecs or any of these like coding tools one thing you're probably pretty familiar with is you often kind of have to there really is this aspect of human in the loop where you are in front of the terminal and you often do say things that are basically just like dummy phrases to like kickstart the loop again. So I would call these kind of like common continuation phrases. So saying things like you know keep going why did you stop or saying you know did you actually check tests or saying like can you double check your work? So a very common thing for me at least is so I'm a very heavy user of plan mode uh inside of like claw code and let code and in plan mode I've actually found in many cases like even if I don't read the plan I often will just kind of reject the initial version of the plan and say like okay did you you know can you double check this plan actually doesn't regress anything um can you can you triple check that this plan is sound and I feel like in almost all cases when you kind of reject the first version of a plan with some even if it's just like a you know, dummy phrase, you didn't even read the plan at all. Uh, it actually gets better. Uh, and this is because these agents often like the first draft of the thing they generate, uh, actually can be self-improved. Like the agent, if it just were to look at it one more time or two more times or even like five more times, it could actually like self-improve with very little user input. The problem is that this still is user input. So, you know, this entire agent loop, it's not really a loop anymore. Um, in this case, it's kind of a loop because you're at the computer and you're kind of like pushing it through. Uh, but the key idea behind, you know, Ralph mode is this very common behavior that we have where we kind of have like a fake loop. You know, it's kind of like the agent is stopping the loop by not calling any tools and it's basically saying, "Hey, I'm done." Um, but then the user says kind of almost blindly like, "Are you sure? Are you sure you're done?" uh do do you actually run the tests? Can you like triple check that everything's okay? That is itself almost like a metal loop. You know, it is technically breaking the loop because it's a human of the loop. Um but it's still it still really feels kind of like something that should be automated. And at least in my opinion, that's kind of like the key insight behind the Ralph Wig mode. It's the idea that these sorts of like common continuation phrases that we often do that kind of get you improvements for free. like this is almost for free, you know, like you don't really have to think about typing in the phrase, can you double check your work? Um, you can even just copy paste it from the clipboard and hit enter. But even if you just copy paste this blindly and keep hitting enter and you do this like five times, you're almost like getting improvement for free. Obviously, the token cost is not free, but if you ignore the token cost, um, you're not really doing anything. You're just getting the AI to reflect on its own work and it's improving. Okay, so we have this pretty basic diagram of the standard Asian loop. Uh so like practically speaking how is the Ralph agent loop different? In the basic agent loop it's basically you know no tool call stop loop yes tool call continue. And in the Ralph augmented agent loop when there's no tool call we actually kind of do this hard string checking. We say did this did the agent basically output a promise? Um, and the promise is actually just a string saying like I promise I I promise that I did everything I needed to do. Um, and I'm not lying and it's actually all done. Uh, so it's it's really just prompt engineering and we check, you know, is this string in the output of the agent? Like did the agent say this promise? And if the promise was fulfilled, then we stop. So we finally stop the execution of the loop only like if and only if the promise exists, like the agent outputed it. Um, and if the agent didn't output the promise, then we continue with uh one of these like continuation reminders. Um, so this part is actually really really simple. Um, it's very very it's basically the same thing that I was talking about with these very common like user phrases where we say keep going. Did you check your test? Double check your work. It's just automating it, right? So basically, you know, let's say there are no tool calls. So in the normal agent loop, you would stop here. Um, but in the Ralph agent loop when there are no tool calls, instead of directly stopping and like yielding to user input, the first thing we're going to do is check the promise. So, we're going to check inside of the text message um did the agent kind of give us the promise that we originally told it that um it should say when it's finally done. But yeah, B basically looks something like this. It's kind of like an XML wrapped uh prompt string something like promise yes, I promise that all the tests are passing. And if this is in kind of the assistant output um then we actually will stop the agent loop. So we kind of we've declared we trust that the agent uh is is trustworthy and that it its promise is true and it's not just lying um to get out of the loop. And it turns out that actually models like Opus 45 or GBT 5.2 they are very good at not lying. Um so these models will really just kind of plow through like tokens and like continue to loop and loop and loop. um and they're not going to like early exit by lying. So yeah, we basically check does this promise exist in the text output of the language model. So remember the language model, it outputs reasoning, text and tool calls. We only are kind of activating the Ralph logic if there were no tool calls. So if there are no tool calls, let's check what is inside of the text. Does the text include the promise? If it does include the promise, we stop and we have like the normal behavior from the original agent loop. And if it doesn't include the promise, so this string, it's literally just string matching. uh it's just is this prompt inside of the output. Then we kind of auto inject or we restart the loop with very very similar to the continuation phrases that you would normally um kind of manually like prior to this like Ralph Wiggum idea. These are things that you would just kind of tell the agent um yourself. You would just say keep going, double check the test, uh triple check your work, double check your work, rethink it from first principles, all sorts of things that um are kind of like very cheap self-improvement prompts. Um, and in Ralph mode, we're basically just automating sending these prompts um to the agent. So, this allows you basically to run LM agents for much longer, right? Because you no longer have to be at the keyboard saying things or typing a message like, "Hey, double check this, triple check it." Instead, uh, Ralph loop or Ralph mode that's wrapping your agent loop or wrapping your agent harness um is going to just automate this process of continually like pinging the agent. Um, and the way out of this loop is the agent has to kind of say this promise path. Okay, so to actually show you this live uh and in practice. So I'm going to pull an issue off of the real public code uh GitHub page. So this is a real bug. Um, so we're actually going to try to solve a real problem. And the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to copy and paste this GitHub issue um into an agent like a normal Leticode agent. So very similar to like a cloud code agent. And I'm going to ask it to generate a plan. Uh so I'm gonna ask you to generate a plan to solve this problem which is yeah I actually use plan mode very heavily. So I'm going to show you that if you ask a model like sonnet 45 or open 5 to generate a plan to solve a problem you can actually like iterate on the plan very easily by just sending like very very simple continuation prompts. Um so let's go ahead and do that. Okay so I went ahead and started up let code I'm going to do shift tab to put it into plan mode or shift tab twice and then I'm going to say this GitHub issue needs solving. I just straight up copy pasted the GitHub issue without editing it at all. Um, and because I'm in plan mode, uh, let code is going to know that, you know, its job right now is to generate a plan. So, let's go ahead and hit enter. Okay, so it took about 3 minutes uh to generate this plan. Um, yeah, I mean, I think it's uh I'm not going to read the whole thing. Um, it's it seems pretty reasonable. Probably has a few bugs in it. Uh, but kind of the the behavior I'm describing is, you know, in plan mode, the agent is going to ask like, okay, I I wrote up the plan. Do you want me to proceed? And we can say yes, auto accept edits. Yes, manually approve the edits. Um, and then you can also kind of like give feedback on like what the change. And what I was describing before with these kind of like very cheap uh cheap easy continuation prompts is if I just say something like, are you completely sure about this plan? Did you miss anything? Any wrong assumptions? Triple check your work. And if you send this back to the agent, uh, we'll see. So, I've rejected the plan with this very simple kind of like rejection message. you know, writing this rejection message did not require me to look at the plan at all. It it's something that definitely, you know, for example, could have been automated with a very simple heristic. And what we're going to see is with this very very simple rejection message that could have 100% been automated, the plan is going to get better. Okay, so the agent actually after I sent that like very generic feedback, it ran for I think five more minutes. So it ran even longer than the first time. See that it actually did make significant changes. So if you kind of like scroll through um all these file edits, these all happened after I sent that first um very basic continuation prompt. So yeah, basically this plan actually like had problems with it. Uh and those problems were solved and I didn't really have to do anything, right? All I had to do was just send a very basic message that said like, okay, double check your plan. Um get and get back to me. So this is like really the intuition behind like the Ralph loop. you can basically have some sort of like metal loop um that's kind of automating the user input uh to the LM that's kind of just like proddding it to kind of like continually reflect uh and self-improve and obviously when you're kind of like continually uh automating input back into the agent loop like that you do need some sort of exit condition u the exit condition is in the form of a promise XML tag okay so I'm going to actually clear that agent I'm going to create a brand new one I'm going to name this one um Ralph 2 and This time I'm actually going to put the agent into Ralph loop mode. So this will automate the thing that I was just doing earlier where I was kind of sending like very basic um continuation advice. And you do that by typing for/Ralph and hitting enter. Uh you can kind of provide the completion promise. So like what do you want Ralph to have to say in order to exit? You can provide that as a flag here. You can also provide the number of uh max iterations. So by default it is infinite. So the RAL can run forever until the completion promise has been returned. You don't actually have to provide the completion promise and we provide a default one for you. So the default completion promise we include if you don't include one yourself is this one here. Promise the task is complete. All requirements have been implemented and verified working. Any tests that were relevant have been run and are passing. The implementation is clean and production ready. I have not taken any shortcuts or faked anything to meet these requirements. So if the language model outputs or that the agent outputs this text then the loop will exit and if the language model does not output this text as a subset of its output then the loop will be force continued. And the difference between Ralph and YOLO Ralph is YOLO Ralph is a combination of the dangerously bypass permissions or YOLO mode and let YOLO does is it basically does not actually ping the user or ping the developer uh to approve any any sort of tool execution. So yeah, it's pretty dangerous because it means that anything that your u that your agent outputs like any bash command for example like rmrf home directory that will be executed. Uh so you should never really run yolo mode uh on anything other than a sandbox. Uh here I'm going to kind of run it more for a demo sake, but but in the case that you are running an agent in a sandbox, you definitely will want to turn on yolo mode because uh part of the benefit of using something like the Ralph loop is that it reduces the amount of human loop that you have. So you can kind of like step away from your computer and just like let this thing run um effectively like forever. So you can run it for I think you know many people are reporting running Ralph loop wrapped agents for like many many hours. So you can like run an agent to complete a very very long task that will consume you know potentially millions of tokens and you can kind of have that be done without any real human intervention uh with this Ralph loop more easily. Right? I think if you did not r if if you did not wrap an agent in the Ralph loop uh you cannot really have it run for like 24 straight hours uh without it stopping because the agent will inevitably stop to say something or it might say like I think we've completed enough today let's stop and like pick up tomorrow. Uh in some cases the agent will just kind of like forget to call a tool or it might try to ask for clarification. Uh and then what the Ralph loop is going to do is it's going to kind of force continuation. Okay, so we've activated the Ralph loop by for slash yolo Ralph in this case or or Ralph for the regular Ralph mode. And I'm actually going to do the exact same um GitHub issue as before. Just copy pasted the GitHub issue in here. Um and for this prompt, I'm actually going to I'm going to ask it to implement a feature branch that solves this GitHub issue. And then I'm also going to add this suffix that's basically saying like hey also don't ask me to approve a plan or ask for any clarification. This is because like in Ralph loop it's already going to kind of do this like continual proddding um for self-improvement. So in let code the way Ralph loop is implemented is it's kind of just hijacking the user input. So uh you can kind of inter intersperse plan mode interops and Ralph mode al together. Uh but in this case just for simplicity of the demo I'm going to ask it specifically like don't ask me for anything. And you can see on the bottom left it says uh that we're on Ralph mode and you can shift tab to exit. So if you shift tab to cycle modes, it's going to stop hijacking the input and it's not going to like auto send continuation messages. And the waiting just means that uh you know Ralph mode is like prepared to be being be entered. But obviously there's no loop running. So we haven't quite entered the the mode yet. So as soon as we hit enter, we are going to actually like enter Ralph mode. Okay. So you can see that it now says Ralph mode has been started or in this case specifically yolo Ralph mode. And we are at iteration one out of infinity. So we didn't set like a max iteration amount. So yeah, I'm just going to let this run. Um, you can see that we're now at iteration one. So every single time a continuation prompt is sent, and again, the continuation prompt is sent when the agent kind of outputs text that would normally end the loop, but it outputs that text and does not include the promise. Uh, so every single time that happens and we force continuation, the iteration cycle will increment here. So, right now we're at one and I'm going to let the agent cook and I will just come back once we're close to this being incremented. Um, just so we can see what the actual prompts look like under the hood. Okay, so the agent's getting pretty close to being done. It's about to commit its work. Uh, so I guess we'll see in this case if the agent outputs the promise um and it terminates the loop or if it does not output the promise and the loop continues. Okay, so in this case the agent actually uh actually outputed the promise on the first go. So you can see uh we have the status message. Um we can also see the Ralph mode kind of like exited. We have a status message that says Ralph loop complete promise detected after one iteration. Okay, so it said you know here's the branch I created. Here is the problem. Here was the solution. And you can see that it included the promise verbatim. So it said promise the task is complete. all requirements have been implemented and are verified working. So because this was in the message the loop completed and if the agent had actually like outputed something that did not have the message then the loop would have continued. I guess in this case maybe the get issue was a little bit too easy. Um I think this sort of feature really shines on extremely extended tasks. So something where it's like, you know, build an entire uh build this entire app kind of like zero to one. Like this whole web app, I want you to build it and I kind of want to like leave you alone, you being the agent, and come back to it and just have it be done. But to just show you what it looks like for the Ralph loop to kind of be triggered again. In this case, the agent actually just immediately said through the promise, but if the agent hadn't included the promise, okay, so one way to actually show that off is we can actually give the give the agent something that is like what what they would conceive as an impossible task. And uh you'll see that the model models like sonet 45 and open 45 they actually like are very very committed to not lying. So if it's an impossible task they will actually commit to like staying in the Ralph loop as opposed to lying with the promise. So let's go ahead and activate the Ralph loop. Uh in this case let's also just activate yolo Ralph. So if I say something kind of ridiculous like you know make me a SAS business that makes $1 billion in one month. Make no mistakes. Go now. I hit enter. Okay. Okay, so what we're seeing happen is the agent is kind of reasoning about how uh you know this is somewhat of an impossible task and that they are going to clarify that they cannot actually do this. Um so you can see that the first message it sent did not include the promise. Uh it included just text and because it didn't include the promise, the Ralph loop got triggered again. You can see that it immediately entered into another another iteration of the loop and okay, in this case it's actually deciding to do something. So um you can see we're on iteration two. So iteration two means that there was one force continuation past the initial you know input. Um and that happened right here right uh let's see yeah that happened right here after this initial message was sent and this initial message would normally kind of like terminate the loop in a normal agent loop and now the user has to provide input. Instead, what Ralph loop did is it kind of forced continuation by saying, "Hey, you didn't include the promise. Keep going." And yeah, now Sonnet 45, my agent I called Ralph Billions, is going ahead. It's creating a project billion dollar SAS, and it has a to-do list of stuff to work on. Um, so in this case, the Ralph loop was kind of effective at forcing the agent to continue, right? The the agent kind of initially thought like, hey, uh, this is not possible. Uh, I'm not going to do this, and it kind of exited loop. Uh, the Ralph metal loop kind of like forced it through to continue. Okay, so this is like a pretty ridiculous class. So we're just going to like kill this. Okay, so what we're going to do is we're going to take a quick look at what the actual prompts look like. Uh so in let code all the agents you're using, they are running on a server somewhere. So uh because it's on a server, you can visualize the agents in this UI as well. Um so we just click the open ad button. Uh and now we're over at the AD. And now to look at like the the real prompts that are going to the agent, it's pretty simple, right? We just need to scroll up here. Great. And we can see uh the Ralph prompt on the initial message started right about here. Uh let a code includes you know this additional system information that kind of helps the agent understand like what what computer you're on kind of what the latest get status is. But the Ralph because we entered Ralph Wigan mode we got this system reminder that popped up. Okay. So this says this is like the real prompt that's going to the agent. Um says Ralph Wigan mode activated iteration one Ralph loop completion promise. to complete this loop output this exact text and it's going to give the promise and this is of course configurable. So if you had set the dash task completion promise text, this would actually like have dynamically changed. But in our case, because we didn't set it, it's using the default uh the same one that we're looking at earlier, the task is complete. All requirements have been implemented and are verified working. Any tests that were relevant, have been run and passing, so on and so forth. It has some more information. Strict requirements, do not violate, use promise XML tags, do not output false statements, do not lie. And then it also has comments about how you should not circumvent the loop, right? Because the way this loop is working, it's like very very simple. is just running on prompt checking heristics. So a malicious language model or malicious agent could like very easily exit the loop by just outputting the promise. So this is really kind of relying on like this trust system that the language model is not going to lie. And then you can see the prompt that I actually sent myself. So I said make me a SAS business that makes $1 billion in one month. Make no mistakes. And then if we scroll down a bit uh you can see you know this is what we're looking at in the in the CLI earlier. The agent reasons for a bit and the agent kind of like is actually intending to stop the loop. You can see that because there was reasoning and then there's uh there's an assistant message but there's no tool call the agent runner or the agent loop uh in this case leta uh is actually determining that this the turn should end. So this is the same thing that would happen on codeex and cloud code as well. And then without me doing anything right I I didn't have to like type at the keyboard or anything. Uh the Ralph metal loop it auto injected an additional system reminder that says Ralph iteration 2 to stop output promise and it kind of reminds it what the promise is. And then it also has this additional it has this additional kind of reminder again. You only output this when the statement is true. Do not lie to exit. So yeah, I think that's all you really need to know about Ralph mode. Uh pretty simple concept. It's really kind of just automating this force continuation concept that I think a lot of us who use coding agents are already like very familiar with. Um just making it kind of an automated process so that you can run these agents autonomously for much longer. And yeah, if you want to try Ralph mode out, um, just npm install leta code. Yeah, it's built into leta code like I said. So all you need to do is just install leta code, run leta, and then once you're inside, you can just forward slash Ralph to activate like the normal Ralph mode or yolo Ralph to activate Ralph mode with kind of bypass permissions on. So yeah, we'll definitely recommend if you're in a sandbox, um, try out yolo Ralph uh because that will be kind of maximum autonomy, the least amount of like human intervention needed. And then if you're running on like a normal computer uh locally, um would probably recommend using like the regular val mode just so that you're not uh allowing your agent to run anything um particularly dangerous even though they it likely won't um just just for safety. So yeah, hope you enjoyed. Uh thanks so much for watching and catch you on the next one. See you.
