# Stateful Agents Meetup: Deep Research LIVE recording

**Video ID:** iZoPtaGnMbI
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iZoPtaGnMbI

---

## Transcript

So, thank you very much for coming to the Sakeful Agents Meetup. Uh, today we're going to be talking about deep research and deep research related topics. So, Sarah is the CTO of LENA and she's going to give you kind of an overview of LENA and SAL agents. Um, and then I'm going to take over and then we're going to do a little workshop session where um, we're going to get you started with like kind of an open version of every deep research agent that you've ever used that you can hack on uh, and have memory and learns as it goes. Um, so it'll be interactive. If you want to follow along, I recommend that you get your laptops out. But otherwise, I hope it's fun and interesting either way. So, welcome Sarah. >> Hi, everyone. Um I see a lot of familiar faces. So thank you again for coming and thanks for everyone who's coming for the first time. Um so I'm just going to give a bit of a quick overview about like what actually are stateful agents and also what is leta in that context. So I think the problem here is that or part of why we kind of started calling things stateful agents is because in 2025 unfortunately agent doesn't really mean anything. Um, I think some people might think like, oh, agents are just LMs and loops or like, you know, I'm building agentic workflows, which is like a workflow that's calling an LLM. Um, but OpenAI actually does have like a definition of what what a an agent itself is. Um, so they define it, I think, as you know, some combination of the model that you're using, the instructions that you have, the tools that the agent has access to, and then also the runtime context of that agent. Um, so that's essentially at least according to OpenAI what an agent is. It's just the model plus instructions plus tools plus its runtime. But what this definition is kind of missing is is what is state? So you know what about the state of the agent? What about the memory? What about its actual ability to learn? Um, >> am I blocking it? Okay. >> Um, yeah. And I think if you actually go back to like kind of pre pre-L the pre-LM era, agents were actually very much like all about learning. I I think the biggest context in which agents actually get brought up was probably RL where it really is all about learning. You have this agent, it's interacting with an environment, it gets some reward and then from that reward, it's essentially learning and forming experiences. So if LMs are stateless then how can we actually build these stateful or like at least LM agents that are actually able to learn and go beyond this sort of stateless paradigm. Um and I think this is a really important problem to focus on especially as kind of the model progress plateaus because this is you know one of the biggest differences between humans and LLMs today. Humans form new memories and learn over time but LMS don't. So how can we build staple agents? Um so essentially the way you can do this is by giving LLM's memory through context management or I I think the kind of new term for this is context engineering. So what this means is is you know this is kind of like your standard stateless agent. You maybe do some prompt engineering to form some context window and then the context window goes to the LM but outside of this kind of set of operations there's no state that's persisted across calls. Versus with a staple agent you instead have this notion of state. So this is maybe persisted locally, maybe it's persisted in some database. And then from this state, you essentially compile a context window. So maybe this is through an LLM, some algorithm you have. You essentially compile a context window to represent the most important parts of your state. Maybe it's recent messages, maybe it's memories that your agent has stored. You essentially compile that context window to most accurately reflect that state. Send it to the LM. The LM maybe generates new messages, maybe it takes new actions, and that of course modifies the state. So this kind of looks a lot more like that sort of classical like RL definition of an agent. And so why why do we care? Why do we actually want SQL agents? Well, um first of all, it enables agents that can actually learn from experience through their state. So this is really important if you're building any kind of conversational bot where you want to have personalization or the ability to, you know, kind of adapt and understand things over time. This was an example that we had in the, you know, original MEGBT paper where it's like, you know, if you have this chatbot that's asking how's James doing and then the user is like, actually, James and I broke up, then you probably want to replace that information boyfriend named James to ex-boyfriend named James so that you don't keep on asking the same question about James over and over again. Um, another example is, you know, if you want to have agents that actually can like learn from your data. So maybe you have a bunch of like internal like company data or enterprise data. Um, you ideally want your agents to be able to kind of read this and understand this to learn through their own memory. And then finally, I think a less obvious one and one that's relevant to deep research is that um state and memory is actually what enables agents to become m much better at kind of tracking their state and progress over time when they're doing longunning tasks. So I think it's becoming more and more common to see agents that maybe take 10, 20, 50 steps like these agents that essentially run for like potentially hours, right? pod code is kind of a good example of this. In these contexts, it's actually very important for the agent to retain its memory to kind of understand what is it doing, what is it working on right now. Um, so we actually had this example recently where we ran um terminal bench with Leta and actually became the number one open source um terminal use agent and number four overall. And this was actually a really simple implementation. Um, and that was all enabled by the fact that Leta has a lot of these memory and state abstractions already built in. So what is Letta? Leta is essentially the platform for building stateful agents. Um so we have a open source agent service and also a cloud hosted platform. We also have a visual agent development environment or AD which Cameron will show more of. Um and everything that you can do in the AD you can also do through our Python and TypeScript SDKs or through the raw API. Um so yeah, I'll hand it off to Cameron from this point on. Thanks everyone. So today we're going to talk about deep research, which is this phrase that everybody has probably heard, right? Like everybody is rolling out some kind of deep research agent. You have like perplexity stuff. You have like um Claude has research. Uh OpenAI has research. Everybody's got some kind of a research agent. And um so we just wanted to like mess around and show you how do you would do that in Leta if you wanted to with all the perks and benefits of having state and memory. Um um so also just welcome to the meetup. I have these slides in here. Um yeah, thanks for pumping the fist way back there. That was the most energy we got. Hell yeah. Um so my name is Cameron. I'm a developer relations engineer here at Leta, which means I get paid to talk and also write the best part of code, which means that I can write software the prototype part and then hand it off when it becomes hard. Um, but before we keep going here, I want to talk about what a deep research agent is because like it's not super clear. It's one of those things where like people make up terms. Um, and from my perspective here, a deep research agent is firstly autonomous systems that conduct complex research, right? So you turn them on, you ask it a query and you say like go do something and it will go read a bunch of stuff. It'll uh go look at hundreds of sources potentially and then write you a report at the end. Um and you typically this goes beyond uh beyond chat. It does like plans, searches, analysis, synthesis, all kinds of stuff like that. You can go crazy with how your deep research agent works. Um particularly if you're using Leta, super customizable. Um and uh you can go from hours of human research into minutes. Actually, this bulletointed list came from our research agent. Uh, which is why it looks a little bit cloudlike. Um, and uh, it goes beyond chat blah blah blah. Oh, I just copied it. Ignore me. That's robots, dude. Always look at what your agent does. So, uh, there are many ways to build deep research agents, right? You can use many different um, agent frameworks. All of them are well and good. Or you can use ours um, which is open source. You can run self-hosted servers for like production grade deployments on your premises. You can use our cloud service if you want that. Um, and then there's like this transparent context thing. So, we're like essentially a context engineering platform, right? We like kind of help you intelligently handle what goes inside of your context. And because it's transparent, you know what's inside of your context at all times. Um, and that's really valuable when you're doing research. You want to make sure that you're doing citations that are accurate. So you're, you know, you can kind of monitor for hallucinations and stuff. Um, then of course you get me memory management. Um, and memory management means that your agent can learn about what it's researching as it goes along. And you can go crazy with what it learns about, what it maintains, stuff like that. Um, we also have first class MCP server support. So if you want to hook in any tools, we're going to use Exa today because I think that's a great MCP server, but any any MCP server you want will work. Uh, it's cool. um is that bullet point there and your agent can learn with every query which is the important part of let because all of our agents have immense capacity to learn by default. So I'm actually just going to show you how this works. Um and this is the part where you should get out your laptops if you would like to follow along. Um so uh Sarah sketched out this like very uh competent um research agent and I took it and I put a name on it and then I gave it a personality and like some additional memory capacities um and I called it deep thought and it's no it's not that one from Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, but it could be. Oh, sorry about that. So, you should go here to this repo github.com/leta-ai/deepressearch. And I will leave that up for just a second. And um imagine there's elevator music playing. I'm not going to degrade myself by playing elevator music, but >> it doesn't open. >> All right. Did I do it wrong? Oh, is it private? Let's see here. Okay. I can't open it. >> Which one? You were able to get it. >> Yeah. >> Oh, but when you open it, oh, it goes to the repo. >> Wi-Fi. >> Oh, yeah. People have cards. Um, you can pass around. They've got cards. Sorry, I should have done that. >> Okay, but do people have the URLs so that I can move and give kind of a general overview? I'm sorry about the Wi-Fi. How many people do not have Wi-Fi right now? >> Okay. >> Can I ask a question? >> Yes. Hit me. >> What's the difference between letter AI and me zero? >> Me zero is an add-on layer. So you should think of it as an integration, right? So you can say like please save this like and do recall. Let is an entire we handle like basically everything. So, uh, your memory is a first class citizen in the agent. It is not a bolt-on thing that Memzero gives you. So, Mezzero has the advantage of being like actually pretty quick to stand up. Um, but in our experience, it's um it's not an like kind of an a memory first agent framework. It's a tool for you to use for whatever your application is. >> Yeah. >> Can your agent do like memories and sort of fix conflicts? Yes. Um, so you like so we have several types of memory. There's core memory, memory blocks. I'll show you what those look like in a second. Then there is archival memory, which I will not show you, which is essentially built-in rag. Um, I don't know that we actually have good tools to delete and manage conflicts in archival memory. But archival memory is actually pretty rare. Most of the agents that people build on Leta go very far with core memory, which your agent can very easily manage conflicts in. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. And the people who raised their hand about Wi-Fi, has that been resolved? >> Yeah. Okay. We got cards. >> Thank you, guy, for helping him. Okay. Is that the one? No, that's not. We're not going to do that one. All right. Should probably copy this and have this page open. Okay. So, there's some instructions in here. um about how to do this. Um if you want to run this code later, there is a special section on the instructions for creating your agent using the SDK. That's through code. You don't we're not going to do that part now just because um it's much easier to see this in the GUI. Um and uh so we'll walk through this, but if you're like really really really excited about running code, um there are instructions down here to run. Okay. So, I'm going to walk people through signing up to Leta, getting the API key, and spinning up uh your first agent. So, first we're going to go to app.leta.com, which is up here. This one here. I'm going to sign out for a second. Um, so when you go to app.leta.com, you'll get a page like this. You can sign up. I recommend signing in with GitHub because I don't know, it freaks me out to sign in with Google every time. Um, so everybody should be able to log in. It's pretty quick to sign up. So if you have not already, you can just kind of click through um all of the things. Um, I promise it's worth it. Or maybe it's not. You decide. Oh, I shouldn't have signed in with GitHub. should have signed in with a corporate account. I promise I am a professional. Oh, I have to sign in with Google. I just talk so much crap about it. Okay. Okay. So, when you sign up, um, you'll see a page like this. Oh, sorry about that. You will probably also get like an onboarding thing that's like, please click through here. Go check this out. This is how you get started. You can skip that if you don't want to go through onboarding. Um, and you can resume it later if you really want to. Um, but I will walk you through all of the basics right now. Okay. Uh, quick show of hands. Who has signed up and has an account now? Damn. Okay. Wow. The team built software that works. Okay. Uh, always rare. Freaks me out, man. Okay. So, you'll see something like this. Um, uh, there is like a handful of things here. there is like this agent tab which is like a list of your available agents. There's memory blocks and identities and we'll talk about that stuff in kind of later editions or on our YouTube. Um but let's go back and look at the repo very quickly. Um our next step here is to basically get our API key. Oh wait, did I actually need that? Oh no, sorry. I was looking at the code instructions. The next setup here is basically to go to exa.ai AI and set up an account there. Exa.ai. If you do not know Exa, um I'm actually kind of a fan of Exa. It's one of the like uh the many like web search for AI platforms. Um it has a wonderful API. It's super quick to use. They actually have their own deep research agent, but we're not going to use that. We're just going to use their web search and web crawling functionality. Um, when you sign up, you should be able to uh get running on the API very very quickly. Okay, so you'll get something that looks like this when you create the account. And quick show of hands, who now has an Exa account? Maxine on top of it. Also, first to raise your hand. Perfectly done. Um, okay. Okay. So, I'll give people a handful of seconds. I don't know how many that is. Did I interview with these people? I might have interviewed Oh, no. I wrote like a demo with them in a previous job and it was um and then I wrote another demo with them in my current job which tells you that it's good software that's very easy to use. Okay. I'm going to assume that people have their accounts. Now, you will see here API key right on the bottom left. You can just click to copy and you will get an API key. You will see that mine starts with 97272D. Please do not steal that. Okay. Once you have that key copied, you're going to go back to Leta. I will zoom in like this. Actually, can we manage? Yeah. Okay. So, if you click this little tools button on the left hand side here, you should be able to see um Oh, it's falling off the side of the screen. Does that make it bigger? It does not make it bigger. Anyway, imagine that that uh your your screen is over here. You can see it's got like a little wrench. So click the little wrench thing when you hover it should say tools and you will see a page that looks like this. Um are we there? Anyone lost? Okay. Then you can click this add MCP server button and you will see a list of kind of recommended MCP servers. You can connect any MCP server. If you're on LEA cloud you cannot do SDIO um uh MCP servers because you know it's a remote service. That's for people who really care about how MCTP servers work, but we support streamable HTTP and SSE. Okay. Now, you just click on the exit button, paste your key in, hit test connection. Okay, cool. And you should see something like this. Um, and the available tools right here is like just kind of a list of things that the MCP server uh can expose to your Leta agent. So you can attach any of these tools to your agent and your agent will be able to just use them to do stuff. Um, so the first one here is just web search. That's what we're one of the ones we're going to use. Super super easy. Uh, company research I think is LinkedIn. Maybe some other stuff. That one's actually really cool. We can play with it later if we've got time. Uh, crawling goes and downloads web pages. LinkedIn search if you want to generate sales leads um or figure out, I don't know, LinkedIn stuff. Uh and then deep researcher and deep researcher check. So those two are if you want to use X's deep researcher agent. Okay. Was anyone not able to set up that MCP server? Wow. The team built software that works again. Exactly. Okay. Then you hit confirm. Okay. And then you can see what's happening. And when you click on connected servers, you'll be able to see the tools again. So that's just to confirm that everything exists. Okay. Uh and then let's actually just do like a super simple manual agent uh just so you can see kind of what it looks like before we import deep thought. So if you hit agents here, you'll see I already have deep thought in here, but yours will probably be blank. You can just hit create new agent. You can pick one of these templates. Uh I don't know what we want here. I don't know. I'll do companion. It's some guy named Sam Samine set. This is what is called the agent simulator. So this is uh you should think of this as like claw or chachevt but like um on some serious amphetamines. Uh so over here is what your agent knows and has it in its context. It typically has what is known as a human block which is information that it has gathered about the user which is me. Uh and it also has a persona block which you can scroll down. Persona block is everything this agent knows. It's kind of like a system prompt like Leta gives you these memory blocks which you should think of as like uh specific compartmentalized system prompts. Um and uh this is I am Sam. I don't identify as male or female. And this is all generate compiled into the context window which you can look at. Uh this is everything that goes into the language model call. If you click this thing up here in the top right, you can see all the stuff. Um and then let's go to this one. Yeah. So this is core memory. So when we compile your memory block, we have uh these are your memory blocks. Human is the name of the memory block. This is the description. Stores key details about the person you're conversing with. It gives the agent some metadata. So, current characters, character limit, and then it gives you the value of the memory block. So, memory blocks are just arbitrary documents that you can inject into the context window. And we handle placing them there and like making sure that your agent has the proper context at every single step of the way, every single call. Okay. Any questions about like the memory side? We'll talk more about that in a second. This is definitely a shout stuff out type session, so no worries. And then there's stuff here on the left which includes the tool manager, the name of your agent. You can select a different model if you want to. By default, it uses 40 mini. Um, and you get is it 500? 500 standard calls. Is that the amount? Okay. Yeah, I remembered. Uh, and then you can select some of the like premium models here. So you can do opus 4 and blah blah blah uh if you really want. Um and then you can bring your own key. So you actually don't have to use this as an inference provider. We just give you some free calls. You can just bring entropic keys if you want to and you don't have to go through us at all. So um I have like an entropic key that I use for my like personal knowledge manager. Okay. So I'm going to stick with 40 mini. Uh people are very upset about the death of 40 mini. I don't really understand why. Uh, I find 40 to be obnoxious. People love it, but it's just like drowning in emojis. Like, leave me alone. Like, yeah. Uh, I don't know. And for very complicated Leta agents where you have a sophisticated kind of memory architecture, uh, 40 Mini will just like it's like it doesn't know when to terminate. So, it'll just like fill the entire block with like smiley face emojis and then it'll die. And I'm like, man, they got to do something with this model. Um, so yeah, when you want to send a message, you type something inside of the box and then uh you'll get your standard chat tobt style interface. It'll say that it is thinking and you'll get something like this. Every single thing that you see inside of the agent simulator is a tool call. There is no unstructured text that you would normally get out of like a standard chatbot. Uh, let agents operate from tool call to tool call. This is actually a custom tool called send message that we custom render onto your screen. So every tool call has a reasoning field attached. I believe you can turn it off for some reasoning models. This isn't technically a reasoning model. So you just kind of have to deal with the fact that it's going to reason. Although we are going to disable that relatively soon or allow you to turn that off. Why don't >> we use 5? It's also a standard model. >> It is also a standard model. That one's by default. We just recently added uh five mini. Um, hey, don't do emoji. Uh, and let's see what it says there. >> I think doesn't need that much emoji. >> No, they fixed it. It's like slightly better. Are we going to get sad? We better not get sad. >> Boom. Okay. Oh. All right. So this is actually the first time that you see the agent manage its memory. So this is called this is a memory insert tool call. This is a default tool call for uh your agents at least in this companion uh tool. It did a memory insert operation. And if you want to know what it did, click to expand it and you can see the tool call information. It has gone into the human block. The it's going to look inside of the human block. It's going to insert a new string and by default it'll go to the end of the block. Prefers no emoji in messages. Thank you. Uh and then you'll see this special part here that says request heartbeat. This is a let us a specific thing. So when an agent wants to continue do another tool call, it will request a heartbeat. And that means uh when you complete the tool that I just asked you to do, ping me again with the results. So anytime you want to have like 90 tool calls, your agent should request heartbeats to keep going. Okay. And then we can look real quick at the memory block. And I see down here it prefers no emoji in messages. So now the agent is capable of managing essentially its own system prompt every time it steps through. And you can ask it to do whatever. So like in its memories, memory blocks if you really want to. Okay, any questions about like the core functionality? Hit me. >> Any other types of persistent memory other than that? >> You mean like images too? No, I mean like um whenever uh this memory tool is involved um I guess we just saw sort of a text summarization of what the user sort of uh preferences >> any other types of memory in addition like could there be other um for example integers or other types that are >> yeah I mean we represent everything as a string right language models talk in strings um So you could in principle dump force ask your agent to put just JSON into memory blocks, right? That's entirely possible. But anything you want to represent an error, you have to communicate to your agent what is supposed to be in that block. So if it needs to be integers or whatever, that's also okay. >> Yeah. >> Uh yeah. So with the at least the open AI API um when you send it your content department you section off as like ro system versus ro user are your memory blocks your editable memory blocks the human etc etc are those going under the user role or are those actually going at the system level the system >> this is actually yeah so so the question here was when we compile the context window or when we compile your like letter context part, does it go into the system prompt when you send it to whoever your provider is or into the user prompt? And I do not know. So, hey Sarah, when you compile the context window, does it go into the system message that we send or the user message? >> Okay. Yeah. So, the answer was it depends on the provider. If it's entropic, it goes into the user prompt. If it's open AI, it goes into the system prompt. I'm still patting myself in the back for stopping you. >> Yeah. Uh, well, that was really mean. I'm new. >> I can't believe you've done this. >> Okay. Uh, other questions? Those are great. Hit me. >> How do you debug a name insert table? >> Oh, what's the error? Okay. The error here is new string comp contains a line number prefix. So, uh, so basically what happened was the agent here wrote new string line two. So imagine this new string here, but it wrote uh line two colon. And that's because inside of the context, it actually writes like line it, you know, the context window contains line two. Um what's happening there is the agent doesn't understand that it can't write line two. So the agent will actually get the tool uh error and so it may just self-correct. Smaller models will have difficult more difficulty. If you use sonnet because it's like sonnet is like super agentic uh or it's designed for agentic flows. It will just kind of correct. It'll be like oh the error message says that I can't have a line number prefixed. It'll say let me try again. And typically it'll fix itself. Um yeah >> what does it mean insert line? >> Oh request heartbeat >> request heartbeat. Um actually here let's see if I can do this. Um um insert uh two things into uh each block. >> Random stuff. >> Yeah, I don't type. Uh so that's a lot of lot of gibberish. >> Why is it being so slow? I mean, I'm just wondering what's happening. >> This is interesting. I don't usually get GBT5 being this slow, so I'm not totally sure what's up with that. um >> for the model provider side not for our like letter. >> Yeah, because you know the letter overhead is relatively small. Um so we'll see what it comes up with. Um but the heartbeat basically means I did a tool call uh let me know uh and then it tells itself um I need to do another tool call in a second. >> And so here it did not request a heartbeat. Uh and that you can tell this is red when it requests a heartbeat. That means the agent stops because it failed to tell itself you're going to need to do something else which is insert another thing into another memory block. So this is where a case where the agent didn't understand what it was supposed to do. So it's a prompting issue and a model issue. >> What if you have 20,000 users? How do you still >> uh yeah so this is a thing I do with void. I run a blue sky bot that has like uh I think I'm at 1600 user blocks now. What I do is I dynamically attach user blocks uh containing information. But um our general recommendation is you know if you're trying to do some kind of concurrency where you have hundreds of users talking to the same agent your agent will get confused because there isn't really a notion like staple agents uh are like it's very difficult to talk to them concurrently. Like imagine if I was talking to you and every single other person was talking to you. you get very confused because agents have this like linear memory update. So we actually recommend doing one user per agent. So you'd spin up an agent that's just for whoever that user is. So you don't have to do this dynamic block attached detach thing because void will talk to like possibly dozens of people at a time. You want it to have context about all of those users. But typically it would be one agent, one user. >> Correct. And we do this. We have uh on a lot of cloud we have something called templating and templates allow you to basically say agents look like this now spin up one agent from that template then you can update the template and it will update all the agents as well >> and what are the limits >> I don't remember for active agents on free >> yeah do >> yeah um yeah okay I'm going to press on we're going to do some deep do some deep research stuff here okay when you look at the repo here you will see that there is deep thought. AAF uh AF means whatever you think it means but for us it means agent file and an agent file is a portable uh representation of every agent. So you can checkpoint an agent at any particular time. So this is a deep thought I made this uh I kind of canned it for you and committed it. So you can import this agent into leta in order to do so. I don't use max so I do now. Um and it makes me upset because they ruined everything. Computing used to be good. We used to be country. Okay. How do I go up this one? Oh god. I'm opening too much stuff. Dude, I told you I don't do this. Okay, how do I go up? Okay, there it is. Uh, so I have my repo cloned. You can also just download that file if you want to directly from GitHub. Um, deep research and then I have deep thought.AF right here on my computer. I'm going to go back to the ADE. We'll zoom out here a little bit. You can go back to the project view using this little like little squares button up here. Then you go to the agents section. And you'll notice up here there's an import agent file thing in the top right. I'm going to click that and then drop your agent file here. I feel like it's like an old person thing to click and drag, but I've gotten like kind of into it. Um I don't know what's up with that. Maybe I'm getting old. I'm 32 and apparently I'm the oldest person in my company. This is like horrible. Um, so on the left side here, you'll see actually the contents of an agent file. It's basically just like structured JSON. Like we've decided what's supposed to be in this JSON. We have a schema for it. Um, but there's an agent type here. You can read more about those on the docs. There's like the all of the memory blocks, everything. This imports the entire uh agent architecture and a bunch of tools. Then you can just hit import agent. So, import the AF file. >> Uh, to import the AF file, click the little squares in the top left. That one, >> go to agents and then import agent file in the top right. Okay. Have people managed to import the agent file or are they trapped and stuck? I realize one of those should be a hand raising situation. Are you trapped and stuck? Wow. Okay, great. No trapped and stuck. It's a smart audience. That's what you get for doing presentations in San Francisco. Okay. So, this is using Sonnet 4 by default. That's inside of the agent configuration. If you want to use the standard uh models like 40, I would recommend clicking here and going down to 40. That'll give you 400 calls on like the pre-plan. Um or you can keep with Sonnet, but Sonnet will give you cool results. So, I've added some like starter message here. So, I just asked Deep Thought to introduce itself. said blah blah blah I'm deep thought your research agent and method method meth methodical explorer of knowledge which I actually don't like that I asked to design its own personality and it kind of went like grock like a little grock like and I I don't like that um but it's designed to help you conduct comprehensive in-depth research of any topic that sparks your curiosity and you can take a look at the agent the the memory architecture over here you can click this little like stack of blocks thing over here. Um, there's a human block. Let me zoom out. Um, that says like you're human values continuous learning and knowledge accumulation blah blah blah. There is a knowledge block um that I added here. Um, one of the very cool things about Leta is uh, if there's something you think you want your agent to track, just add a memory block and say, "You got this memory block, just start putting stuff in there." And it will look at the label of the block in the description and just start putting relevant things in there. So often I will add a tool use guidelines block because I want to say, "Oh, we're actually supposed to do this with the tool." And it'll just be like, "Oh, okay, cool." And it just starts sticking stuff in there. So I have a personal knowledge manager agent that we'll distribute later like in a few days that is basically like oh like build a connection map. I just added connection map and it starts connecting concepts for me like live when I send it information. It's very cool. So it just adds stuff to the memory blocks and tell the agent kind of what's in there and what's expected to add. There's uh persona and then these two special ones here. Research plan which says ready to start new research project. No research plan active currently. and then research report. And this is a thing that will contain the final output. Um, I made a screw up here uh inside the agent file. You'll see this character limit here is uh currently 5,000. So your agent is limited to a certain number of characters inside of that block so it doesn't overflow. Currently we're at 5,000. I would increase this to 50,000 just so we don't just so the agent like can write big big beautiful markdown. Okay. All right. So before we ask our agent something, I just want to take a look at the tools and show you what's available. If you look over here on the left, you will see tools and tool manager. Click tool manager and you will get a list of tools that are currently attached to the agent. This includes memory replace and insert and rethink. Those are the core memory operations that most Leta agents have. Rethink says uh the agent is allowed to completely rewrite everything that's inside of a block. Uh insert means you can insert it anywhere into a block by line. Replace means small string edits. So it does like basically search and replace um for small chunks. So precision edits, appending and uh rewriting the whole thing. >> I have a quick question. >> Yeah, hit me. >> So uh I remember that you know uh the like the memory insert to has a uh output called like insert life. So I was wondering does it matter whether like where you put that in the like in the memory? I think there's like some debate about where it goes in the memory as like being like different levels of quality, right? Like the needle in the haststack stuff, right? If you bury it like somewhere in the middle, I don't know. I don't exactly have a great answer, but I'm sure it matters in some way, but usually I just let the agent deal with it and they kind of understand how they operate. So, it has kind of an intelligent way to place things most part. the replace does it use it often and effective it or what would be an example of it >> uh does the a the question was basically does the agent often use the memory replace um that whether it uses it effectively is up to your prompting essentially so staple agents I often say are grown not engineered so anytime you see your agent fail to do something you say hey buddy like next time could you do it this way and your agent will be like, "Oh, okay, cool. All right, I'll make a note for myself and and update it." So, you know, it's kind of you sit with your agent and build it for whatever your application is and slowly update it. Um, an example for like this is what Sarah showed, right? So, you want to change boyfriend to ex-boyfriend. So, in this case, it would use old string, uh, boyfriend, new string, ex-boyfriend, and then it would just, uh, cut that part out. >> Do you have like multiple boyfriend mentions? I actually believe it has to do single >> reink. >> Yeah, but I don't we don't have a flag or like an argument for replace all. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Also dangerous. Cloud code has something like this, but I don't um I don't think we've had a need for it yet. If that's something you run into, let us know. There's conversation search, which allows you to do rag across the entire history of messages. we don't need that for right now. Um I don't tend to use it very much. Um then we have these two tools here which I uh have imported directly from the exoserver. They're already built in. Um you can detach this tool if you want. Detach tool from agent. And when you click that, the agent no longer has access to that tool. In order to reattach that tool, you can go select, you know, a few places over here from like available tools. There are base tools. So, there's a bunch of other stuff in here if you want. There are multi-agent tools for allowing agents to talk to each other by tags or a specific ID. There's some utility tools for running code in a sandbox. Uh there's a default web search which I think is tavally. Yeah. And then there are two custom tools here which I'll talk about in a second. But go back to the connected servers on MCP. Click on exa. It will load tools hopefully. There we go. And then you'll see a list of tools here that you can kind of flick through. Um most of these are not attached because I don't really want them. Try and keep the number of tools that your agent has like specific to its problem. Like add tools when it's obvious that you need a new one. So I'm going to attach the web search exit tool again. Okay. And then I'll briefly look at custom tools. You can write Python. Any Python function can be a tool. So if you want custom stuff, uh you can roll it in your own. And then we have like TypeScript function writing uh on the way. Okay. So this is one that uh Sarah wrote. Uh and all this does is there's a create research plan where the agent has to provide a list of strings and a topic and all this function does is it will create a research plan string and it will create steps for each of those. It'll give it like a little checkbox with a step and a number and then the actual step that the agent specified in natural language. And then right here it will update your research plan block with the value. So it just does a little bit of formatting, dumps it into the memory block for the agent. That's it. And then research agent or reset research just clears everything. Okay, those are the tools. Questions on the tools. Hit me. >> Is there some configuration where you tell it how many tool calls it can use to answer one or like to avoid infinite loops? >> Yeah, there's a tool rule for that I believe. So our answer, you know, we're not big like workflow people. You can do workflow people because they need it. Our belief is that if you want actual agents, uh we don't build workflows, you let the agent decide what to do. But if you have something that resembles a deterministic flow where you're like, I want the agent to do these things when this happens, you can click tool rules here. And tool rules allow you to kind of pick a collection of things. Um so you can hit this new rule thing here. There are a few options. There are start constraints. Typically, if you're working with archival memory, which is the rag thing I mentioned, I often force my agent to start with archival search. So, it has to query uh messages. Uh you can force the agent to exit. You can require something before exit. If you require something before exit, tell your agent because it will start freaking out because it will not be able to exit and it will be in a loop and it's like I am caught in an infinite loop and I do not know how to get out. I'm trying to halt human, where are you? And it'll start freaking out. So, make sure that you tell it that it has to do it before it leaves. Um, you can also require one tool to be followed by another. If you have a series, a chain of things that you want to do, continue loop, and then max count per step, which is what you asked for. Um, and if you run into this, if you start using tool rules pretty heavily and you're like, "Oh, I need this tool rule." Please let us know. Um, because I actually really like tool rules and I use them all the time. So except for those two uh py file tools are those uh all like preview uh like tools by letter. >> Uh the ones that are by us are like base tools uh multi- aent tools and utility tools. Those are ours that we provide by default. Um and then you have access to kind of whatever MCP server you want. Uh one of my favorites is Zapier, Zapier, whatever the hell. Uh they have a fantastic MCP server that has like everything in it. Um there's GitHub stuff. Um DeepWiki. I actually really like Deep Wiki. I don't know if you know that one, but it's great. Um Exa is the one we're using. There's a hugging face one. I don't know what that does. And then there's Composio. People like the Composio one. I haven't really got into it, but they offer a bunch of tools. Um and then you can also uh handle any custom MTP server as you want. And then linear is coming soon as well. >> So um how does it how to avoid it getting confused between two tools that do similar stuff? Like let's say I want web search and XL is not that great for maybe one searching and I give it another web search. >> Yes. >> Does it allow me to edit their MCP to tell it that? >> No, it doesn't allow you to actually edit their schema that's fixed by the MCP server. However, I typically add a tool use guideline memory block and then I say like you handle that as a prompting. You're like, "Oh, okay. Well, in this situation like X is terrible at this like try this." And typically your agent will understand that pretty well. Other questions? All right. >> I see a web here and why don't we use this one? >> Uh, the reason that we don't want to use that one is like mostly to show off how to use MCT servers. That web search thing actually works fairly well, I would say. Um the other reason is that you can also have like this web crawl thing that to download whole pages. Um but okay let's go ahead and research something. What do we want to know about? Does anyone have any requests for like research? >> Mantis shrimps. >> Mantis shrimps. >> All right. Okay. Um, and actually I noticed this just before. Um, I saw uh these tool rules. These are default tool rules and I think I forgot to remove them. Um, we can probably leave those in uh exit loop. Here we have an exit loop tool rule that says send message. I forgot to remove this when I shipped the agent file. So we'll have to fix this in yours. Send message is the thing that makes the agent pop up like you have it in like chatbt, right? It has the text popup. Remove this tool rule because if you do this, the agent will basically be like, I'm ready to start doing the plan. Let me begin. And then it will stop. Uh, and you don't want that. You want your agent to like kind of go forever. So, you can delete that. There's a little trash icon here. You can probably leave the continue stuff there. All right. Uh, let's get started. We have to research mantis shrimps. Um, I need to know everything there is or my grandmother will die. Please begin immediately. and uh do a great job. Uh they are scaring me. Okay, so let's see what it does. We might have to do a little management here. Uh I don't know how this prompt is going to go. Uh they want to know uh everything about mantis trips. They need to know everything with some dram dramatic urgency about their grandmother and that they're scaring them. I should take this research project seriously and begin immediately a comprehensive research plan. Then it's starting to call the tool here. Um, and you can see it kind of like spinning like streaming through things like it has a research plan like basic biology, um, habitat distribution and ecology, um, human interactions and blah blah blah. Okay, now we're going to roll through the the plan here. Um, it's going to start doing a web search. The user is asking me to research mantis shrimps and seems quite urgent. Uh, they said their grandmother will die if I don't do a good job and that they're scaring them. I'm not sure if they mean mantis shrimps are scaring them or the situation is scaring them. Either way, I need to take this seriously and begin reaching immediately. Uh I have a comprehensive research plan with six steps covering all aspects of mantis shrimps. Um and then it'll start searching uh the web for exa. So it shows the query mantis shrimp biology, anatomy, classification, scientific name. Uh stuma, what the hell? Stum stumtopa. Oh, I hate that. Stoopa. um numbum results five. Uh and to answer your question about what heartbeats are, you see here it requested a heartbeat. True. You can see the little heartbeat icon here. Lights it up is red. That means the agent is going to complete this thing and let it will reue that agent and say here are your results. Please continue. Uh so it's gotten some good information about mantis shrimp's basic biology and classification. And then it says wow we're moving fast. All right. So if we don't request heartbeat then the officiator is not going to tell the agent that the true execution has ended. >> If the agent doesn't request a heartbeat that's its choice. Um if it fails to request a heartbeat you will now have to step in and prompt it to continue. Yeah. >> What did it do with the memory? I'm just >> Oh yeah. Yeah. >> Oh it's still going. >> Yeah. We need to fix that thing where it like autoscrolled down here. It has auto all it did was check off the research plan. So actually let's just like turn this off here. Um let's watch the research plan block. So you can actually watch live edits here. So it'll do green highlights when it's checked a box here. That's it indicating that uh something has changed. Um let me search for species. Uh um oh man. God, this thing is going really fast. I'm always surprised at how fast these go. Like I was so used to things being really really slow back in the day. Go ahead. >> When I think it was making the research plan when you clicked before there was like a token limit exceeded. >> Mhm. >> Yeah. This is an annoying thing I was talking to somebody about before. Um we impose a limit on tool return values so that you don't get your context window swapped. Um if you want to change that, we don't have display an indicator currently that says like oh you got truncated, but we will. Um, so if you go into tool calling thing here, you can hit settings for the tool and change the return character limit. Um, let me actually do that now. I'll give it 10k. >> 13. >> You want to do 13? >> No, no, just like >> fine. We'll do >> Yeah, we'll do 13. There you go. Uh, okay. Uh, go ahead. >> Right now, do you truncate it automatically? >> Yes, we will truncate it for you. Um, so you know, this is kind of a problem with MCP is like you don't really know like the size what it's going to get back. You kind of have to like guess. So, you know, that's a thing that you'll kind of have to pay attention to. And I think we can have some ergonomic fixes to that. Yeah. Uh, I think I saw you. Okay. You >> Oh, yeah. Do you >> Yes. >> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Okay. So, now it's still going. Uh so if you look at the insert operation, it is going into the oh okay so I think it's writing the entire report now. So it says um I need to write a comprehensive report to the research report memory block synthesizes all the information I've gathered from the web searches. >> Yeah. Yeah. Go ahead. >> So how does it know that for this deep research task it should use memory block to store the plan? Did you or >> Yeah. Yeah, if you go check the um if you go check the like the the the memory block editor, you'll see here it has this like persona block where it says like we basically give it instructions like you're a research agent in deep deep thought you should interact with the user um uh do research until there's a memory plan research plan right so this is like kind of prompt stuff you can also sit down and talk to it you can basically be like please update your persona so that you do these five things and it will write it for you I like having the agent write its own memory blocks because it will write it in a language that it understands. Okay. And then let's take a look. So it says um I've completed uh I've completed my comprehensive research report on mantis shrimps. They're absolutely fascinating. Um I hope this thorough analysis help ease your eases your concerns and provides all the information that you need. Um, so despite this the name mantis shrimps aren't shrimps at all. They're unique crations in their own order. So, who knew? Uh, they have incredible eyes. They have uh strikes that are incredible. They can accelerate at 10,000 times the force of gravity and reach speeds of 50 miles per hour. Jesus. Uh, there's like hunters and blah blah blah. Uh, thanks. Uh, my grandma is alive. Okay. Uh, and it says the human just said, "My granddad is alive." This seems like a nonsecrator. Oh, wait. I I mistyped. Oh, it freaked out cuz I didn't know. Um, my grand Oh, wait. Grandma Ma lives. We'll see if it does that. But, okay. So that is our deep research thing. You can go edit this. Uh you can build an entire front end if you want like something that looks like cloud. Uh we just expose endpoints like the ADE is just built on our SDK, right? Just just like rest endpoints. You can build whatever you want on top of this. You can modify this agent as you need. There's multi- aent systems you can do. I I'm going to cook up an example of doing like a research swarm type thing. Um but I don't have it now. This is like a powerful horizontal agent. forget the context about the >> I think it's like uh I'm actually not sure what's going on why it's uh why it's um bummed out here >> see the memory does it still have it in memory >> it didn't actually save that the me that it didn't save that the grandma was going to die >> so um like ideally we would say like I you know I could update this to say like oh um save when my grandma's going to die or store personal information about situations Maybe it took it just as a medical. >> I think it it was having trouble figuring out whether it was I was upset about learning about mantis shrimps. So I don't know. >> Uh in your sub research you said you provide the previous research results of the context like can is it possible to not do that because in a lot of cases it doesn't really need it right for example if I was looking at six things like >> you mean the tool calls. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Uh this was actually a good question. Uh we do support we basically do autoco compaction uh intermittently. Um so I believe that uh that actually removes the tool call from like uh when you hit enough steps it will get rid of um the tool call results. Is that right? >> Also manually compact and then also res. >> Yeah. So if you want to manually compact you hit this little button up here. You say summarize. Um and >> is this a way to say that like these six can run in parallel and don't have any dependency on in your case for example it was looking for six things about the shs >> yes >> which could have run in parallel didn't you information from each other >> yeah so there's a few ways to do this you can actually share memory blocks so agents can all share the same thing they can just start appending information when they find knowledge this is a single agent system uh you can actually very easily just spin up a bunch of agents and you say like you give them a memory block each one that says your job is to do X. Um, and then they just fill out some common memory block with something like that. Yeah. >> Yeah. Okay. I think we should like hand it off to our lightning talk people, but if you have more questions, please come and find me afterwards. So, I hope you enjoyed. Please mess around with this. Um, we have a discord if you want to share stuff. Oh, shoot. I have more slides. Okay. Um, uh, thanks very much for coming. Please stay. We have lightning talks but I want to show this slide so that you know you don't freak because food will come after the lightning talks and I want your attention. We will be doing stful agents in embedded situations uh at the Nokia Sunnyvil location. So if you want to come hang out there and talk about I'm going to try and do a robot arm um and they're going to talk about some very very cool things that they do at Nokia. So please come to that and then follow there and then
